Department of Agriculture(KSDA) - Index login ಕನ್ನಡ visually challenged a Department of Agriculture(KSDA) Government of Karnataka Shri P M Narendraswamy Hon'ble Agriculture Minister I Govt. of Karnataka RTI Tender DEPARTMENT RELATED WEBSITE Contacts Head Office District Office Photo and Video Chitradurga. Raichur. Chamrajnagar Vijayapura Haveri Gadag Chikkamagaluru Hassan TUMKUR Kalburgi Dharwad Hassan BIDAR Mysore Mysore Bangalore Rural Bagalkote Ramangara Ramangara Belgavi Mandya Kolar Farmer advisories Vijayapura Chikkaballapura Yadgiri Shimoga Koppala Chitradurga Ramanagara Chikkaballapura Chikkamangalore Raichur Bagalkot Davangere KALBURGI VIjayapura Belagavi Davangere Davangere Vijaynagar × RTI Tender DEPARTMENT RELATED WEBSITE Contacts Head Office District Office Photo and Video Chitradurga. Raichur. Chamrajnagar Vijayapura Haveri Gadag Chikkamagaluru Hassan TUMKUR Kalburgi Dharwad Hassan BIDAR Mysore Mysore Bangalore Rural Bagalkote Ramangara Ramangara Belgavi Mandya Kolar Farmer advisories Vijayapura Chikkaballapura Yadgiri Shimoga Koppala Chitradurga Ramanagara Chikkaballapura Chikkamangalore Raichur Bagalkot Davangere KALBURGI VIjayapura Belagavi Davangere Davangere Vijaynagar Feedback Events Previous Next News and Events 1 10 months ago Krishivarthi Monthly Magazine 2 4 years ago State Scholarship Portal Helpline -1902 3 7 years ago Raitha Call Center Toll Free No: 1800 425 3553/8277003553 Read All Latest News 1: Krishivarthi Monthly Magazine 10 months ago 2: State Scholarship Portal Helpline -1902 4 years ago 3: Raitha Call Center Toll Free No: 1800 425 3553/8277003553 7 years ago Close Conservation and Promotion of Landraces Pause INTRODUCTION Samrakshane (Crop Insurance Portal) • Covers crop insurance schemes like PMFBY and WBCIS & Enables direct compensation payouts to farmers and has completed 12 seasons so far bengaluruurban.nic.in. Raitha Samparka Kendras (RSKs) These are physical extension centers established at the hobli (sub-district) level to provide Technical know-how on crop production, Access to critical inputs (seeds, pesticides) , Basic soil and seed testing services & Linkage with technology providers from both public and private sectors Dr. Selva kumar S Secretary Read More Chaluvarayaswamy Agriculture Minister Read More Read All About Us INTRODUCTION Close Dr. Selva kumar S Secretary Read More Chaluvarayaswamy Agriculture Minister Read More INTRODUCTION CITIZEN CHARTER Guideline POLICY Vision Objectives Mission Organization Structure History SERVICES AND SCHEMES Raita Siri Fertilizer and Biofertilizer Quality Control Laboratory Karnataka Raitha Suraksha Pradhana Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana Guidelines And Circular National Mission on Edible Oil-Oilseeds (NMEO-OS) NMEO-Oil Seeds National Mission on Natural Farming Mission for Aatmanirbharta in Pulses (MAP) Mission for Cotton Productivity (MCP) Plant Protection Plant Protection Quality Control Pesticides related Information Circular Verified Principal Certificate Plant Protection Guidelines Rate Contract PP RKVY - Crop Diversification Programme (CDP) Raitha Samparka Kendra Crop Survey Scheme Maize D B T Conservation and Promotion of Landraces Proceedings of Advisory Committee Meetings Circulars Government Orders Karnataka Raitha Samruddhi Yojane AGRI STARTUP Agriculture Infrastructure Fund Krishi Yantra Dhare(CHSC) Service Providers Guideline Government Order and Circulars Soil Health Mission Pesticides Licence Related Chief Minister Raitha Vidya Nidhi Pradhan Mantri KIsan SAmman Nidhi (PM KISAN) Organic Farming and Millet Promotional Programs Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana(RKVY RAFTAAR) FERTILIZER AND MANURE Fertilizer Supply Report Quality Control and Notifications Guideline and Circulars Rate Contract Krishi Bhagya Scheme Seeds Rate Contract Guidelines Seeds and State Farms Quality Control(seeds) and Notifications Micro Irrigation Guideline Government Order and Circulars Rate Contract Farm Mechanization And Agro processing MRP Rates Of The Empaneled Models of Farm Mechanization And Agro processing Guideline Government Order and Circulars Rate Contract FM Natinal Mission For Sustainable Agriculture(NMSA) Soil Heath Mission Krushi Abhiyaana National Food Security and Nutrition Mission(NFSNM) TRFA OILSEEEDS AND PULSES NFSNM - Rice, Coarse Cereal, Nutri Cereals and Sugarcane Commercial Crop ATMA TRAINING COMPENSATION FOR FARMERS SUICIDE State Pesticide Testing Laboratory Guideline and Circulars Bio control Laboratory Accidental Death and hayloss compensations Discount for 1 percent Crop loan Guideline and Circulars Guideline and Circulars Guideline and Circulars Online Services Scholarship Program for Farmer Children P M KISAN(State Government ) K kisan Farmer Registration FERTILIZER SEEDS PESTICIDES LICENCE P M KISAN(Central Government ) DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS Government Order(Schemes) Scheme Details 2022-23 Scheme Details 2021-22 Scheme Details Agriculture Statistics Budget Department Orders And Circulars(Administration) MPIC Departments publications ANNUAL REPORT Progress under SCSP and TSP programs Our Verticles Departments/Corporation under Agriculture Department WaterShed Stay updated! Click 'Read More' for the latest insights in this section. Read more Karnataka Seeds Corporation Get the latest updates—Click 'Read More' to explore this section. Read more Schemes for Farmers test Conservation and Promotion of Landraces Stay updated! Click 'Read More' for the latest insights in this section. Read more Play Gallery Photo Gallery Videos Podcast View All Agriculture Department Govt Contact Manual Important Websites e-Governance Websites e-Service Websites Statistics Websites Government Apps Central Govt Websites Technical Websites Kannada websites Commission Law/Court Downloads Tourist Websites Government Holidays Important Websites Raj-Bhavan Chief Minister Legislative Assembly Legislative Council Chief Secretary Close e‑Governance C.E.G Web Portal Aadhaar e-Office e-Procurement HRMS KRDH KSWAN DPAR KSDC Open Data Digilocker Mahiti Kanaja NAD IPGRS State Scholarship Close e‑Services Sakala Seva Sindhu e-Gazette Online RTI e-Spandana Mahiti Kanaja Close Statistics e-Pragathi e-Taal DATA Karnataka Gazette CM Dashboard Close Central Govt Parliament President's Office PMO Passport Seva Aadhaar Karnataka Bhavan Close Technical CDAC NIC STQC Close Kannada Websites Kannada & Culture Sahitya Parishat Kanaja Development Authority EKannada Close Commissions Human Right Commission Electricity commission Knowledge Commission Election Commission Legal Authority Child Rights Commission Women's Commission Consumer Disputes Close Law / Courts Supreme Court High Court District Courts Central Administrative Tribunal State Administrative Tribunal Close Downloads NUDI GO Translate e-Speak Kannada Voice Notes Close Screen Reader Access The website complies with World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 level AA. This will enable people with visual impairments access the website using assistive technologies, such as screen readers. The information of the website is accessible with different screen readers, such as JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova and Window-Eyes. Following table lists the information about different screen readers: Sl.No Screen Reader Website Free/ Commercial 1 Non Visual Desktop Access (NVDA) http://www.nvda-project.org/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free 2 JAWS http://www.freedomscientific.com (External website that opens in a new window) Commercial 3 Window-Eyes http://www.gwmicro.com (External website that opens in a new window) Commercial 4 System Access To Go http://www.satogo.com/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free 5 WebAnywhere http://webinsight.cs.washington.edu/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free Close × Disclaimer Please note that this page also provides links to the websites / web pages of Govt. Ministries/Departments/Organisations. The content of these websites are owned by the respective organisations and they may be contacted for any further information or suggestion Website Policies and Guidelines Copyright Policy Hyperlinking Policy Security Policy Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Resources Sitemap Help Screen Reader Access Guidelines Last Updated: Visitors Counter: Version: CeG/KRN 4.0 Content Owned and maintained by: Department of Agriculture(KSDA), Government of Karnataka Designed , Developed & Hosted by: Centre for e-governance - Webportal karnataka government © 2026, All Rights Reserved. Copyright Policy Close Copyright policy (if the published information is available free of any charge) 1)Information featured on this website can be re-published in any media form free of any charge only with prior permission from us(CeG) or concerned respective authority which is owning the website, through email. 2)Information can be republished as it is available and not to be used in a distorted or misleading manner. 3)Where the material is being published or suggested to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged 4)13. However, the permission to reproduce this material does not extend to any material on this site, which is explicitly identified as being the copyright of a third party Copyright policy (if there is a provision to reuse published information) 1)The information published on the website comes under copyright policy and obtaining authorization for their republish is a pre-requisite. 2)To get permission one can mail to ………………..@......... Hyperlinking Policy Close (in case the respective department doesn’t need any permission to hyperlink in their website) 1)We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site and no prior permission is required for the same. 2)we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on other sites. Our Department’s pages must load into a newly opened browser window of the user. (in case of hyperlink permission is necessary for the website) 1)to provide any link or its form on this website, it is compulsory to procure permission. 2)permission can be obtained from the Centre for e-governance by requesting to this email. pd.webportal@karnataka.gov.in 3)Before leaving this government website note: this contact button will lead to another website, to get more information on such new opened site, one must contact the concerned contacts registered on that website. Security Policy Close 1) For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available to all users, this Government computer system employs commercial software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. 2) Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are scheduled for regular deletion. 3) Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the Indian IT Act (2000). Terms & Conditions Close 1)This website is designed, developed, and maintained by the center for e-governance. 2) Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. In case of any ambiguity or doubts, users are advised to verify/check with the Department(s) and/or other source(s) and to obtain appropriate professional advice. 3) ) Under no circumstances will this Department be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. 4) These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. 5) The information posted on this website could include hypertext links or pointers to information created and maintained by non-Government/private organisations. (Name of Department) is providing these links and pointers solely for your information and convenience. When you select a link to an outside website, you are leaving the website and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners/sponsors of the outside website. 6) The concerned department does not guarantee the availability of such linked pages at all times. 7)The concerned department, cannot authorize the use of copyrighted materials contained in linked websites. Users are advised to request such authorization from the owner of the linked website. 8)The concerned department does not guarantee that linked websites comply with Indian Government Web Guidelines If the user visits the information and collects information or downloads files, the following elements may automatically download, - your service domain, IP number, how visitors accessed our website. - browsers and operating systems. - date and time of users’ visits. - URLs from which visitors accessed information. - if the user has visited the website from other websites, details of that website Cookies When you visit some websites, they may download small pieces of software on your computer/browsing device known as cookies. Some cookies collect personal information to recognize your computer in the future. We only use non-persistent cookies or “per-session cookies”. 28 Per-session cookies serve technical purposes, like providing seamless navigation through this website. These cookies do not collect personal information on users and they are deleted as soon as you leave our website. The cookies do not permanently record data and they are not stored on your computer’s hard drive. The cookies are stored in memory and are only available during an active browser session. Again, once you close your browser, the cookie disappears. Privacy Policies Close privacy policy : (when the website doesn’t collect any personal information) We collect no personal information, like names or addresses, when you visit our website. If you choose to provide that information to us, it is only used to fulfill your request for information user information: we do collect technical user details when a user visits the websites and visitor information such as the type of browser, server, and domain, date and time, details of documents downloaded are recorded, This information is only used to help us make the site more useful for you. With this data, we learn about the number of visitors to our site and the types of technology our visitors use. We never track or record information about individuals and their visits. (except in the case when directed by the court through a warrant) cookies: Web sites provide a piece of software when visitors receive information on a website and they are called Cookies. No such cookies are used on this website. Email management: emails are stored when a user sends any information only for that instant and is used only to give information to them. these are not to be used for any purposes or to include in the contact list. without intimating the user, it won’t be revealed. collection of personal details: if the user asks or provides any personal information, the details of its usage are mentioned. if you are not satisfied or suspicious about the details are given or wish to provide an opinion about the same, its necessary for you to contact assigned webmasters under ‘contact us’ section note: private pieces of information received under ‘Personal details’ will only be used to collect identity or elements for easy identification. cookies: Web sites provide a piece of software when visitors receive information on a website and they are called Cookies. No such cookies are used on this website. if the user provides personal information. 1. We do not collect personal information for any purpose other than to respond to you (for example, to respond to your questions or provide subscriptions you have chosen). If you choose to provide us with personal information like filling out a Contact Us form, with an e-mail address or postal address, and submitting it to us through the website-we use that information to respond to your message and to help you get the information you have requested. We only share the information you give us with another Government agency if your question relates to that agency, or as otherwise required by law. 2. Our website never collects information or creates individual profiles for commercial marketing. While you must provide an email address for a localized response to any incoming questions or comments to us, we recommend that you do NOT include any other personal information. website security 1)to make the information available to all, to prevent unauthorized user entry, to stop harming or distorting information and keeping the security of the website in mind, also to handle user traffic, commercial software programs are used. 2)Except for official law institutions, no attempts are made to personally identify the visitor or user. 3)Visitor information is subject to regular deletion 4)unauthorized users shall not add or change information available which can have legal consequences and may be subjected to fine under IT act (2000). Help Close INFORMATION SEARCH: to help users access information within the website, a “search here” option is been provided. here, the option to type in Kannada is made available. while searching, usage of Unicode font is compulsory. option to search in English is also provided. INTERNET ACCESSIBILITY if the internet is slow or unavailable, there may be a modification in website design or some subpages may not open. Help of Various File formats : Document Type Download PDF content Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window) Word files Word Viewer (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Excel files Excel Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Excel (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window PowerPoint presentations PowerPoint Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) - External website that opens in a new window Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for PowerPoint (for 2007 version) - External website that opens in a new window Flash content Adobe Flash Player (External website that opens in a new window) Audio Files Windows Media Player (External website that opens in a new window) Screen Reader Access Close The website complies with World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 level AA. This will enable people with visual impairments access the website using assistive technologies, such as screen readers. The information of the website is accessible with different screen readers, such as JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova and Window-Eyes. Following table lists the information about different screen readers: Sl. No. Screen Reader Website Free/ Commercial 1 Non Visual Desktop Access (NVDA) http://www.nvda-project.org/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free 2 JAWS http://www.freedomscientific.com (External website that opens in a new window) Commercial 3 Window-Eyes http://www.gwmicro.com (External website that opens in a new window) Commercial 4 System Access To Go http://www.satogo.com/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free 5 WebAnywhere http://webinsight.cs.washington.edu/ (External website that opens in a new window) Free 6 atoall (External website that opens in a new window) Free