FRUITS Note: Supported browser versions are Internet explorer 9+, Mozilla 50+ and Chrome 52+ Kannada | English F armer R egistration and U nified beneficiary I nformation S ystem FRUITS Login | Citizen Login About Fruits Feedback FAQ Login User Name Password FRUITS Dashboard Skip “Congratulations” on reaching 1 crore Farmer Registration in FRUITS “Thanks to all the concerned departments for the achievement” “Soliciting continued support:” “FRUITS PMU, Centre for e-Governance, DPAR (e-Gov), GoK” Registration Trend of Last 12 Months Registration Trend of Current Month Registration Total No of Farmer Enrolled Registration by Department Registration Trend of District Wise Last Updated Date & Time: More Charts Skip to Home Page Department Wise No of Beneficiaries Top 5 Beneficiary Schemes District Wise Beneficiaries Beneficiary Payment till Today Beneficieries With One Benefit : Beneficieries With 2-3 Benefits : Beneficieries With 4-5 Benefits : 5 Benefits : Last Updated Date & Time: Previous Next Previous Next About Fruits Karnataka state implements several schemes for the benefit of farmers. Farmers undertake different agriculture and agriculture related activities like growing Agriculture crops, Horticulture crops, Sericulture, Dairy, Poultry, Fishery etc. Each of this activity requires specialised knowledge and experience. Therefore, the state has established specialised and specific department to assist farmers in carrying out farming activities effectively and efficiently. While establishment of exclusive departments brings focused approach for development of each of these activities, farmers need to approach different departments for availing any type of assistance and benefits. It is common practice that all the departments seek documents from the farmers for providing benefits under any scheme. Farmers end up submitting same set of documents to different departments every year. Sometimes they will be required to submit one set of documents for every scheme in same department. A well organized and scrutinized farmer database will avoid farmers from running pillar to post for availing benefits. Besides it would helps the departments in overcoming the aforesaid issues. DPAR e Governance department in association with NIC has developed a software application called Farmer Registration &Unified Beneficiary Information System – FRUITS. Latest Updates More than 1 crore farmers registered in FRUITS Stakeholder Departments Agriculture Horticulture Sericulture Animal husbandry and veterinary science Fisheries Contact Us FRUITS-PMU Centre for e Governance DPAR(e Gov) e-Mail: fruitshelpdesk[at]karnataka[dot]gov[dot]in 080-22208333 080-22209331 080-22209332 © All Rights Reserved Visited Site: 75575824 Website policy