===== Overdraft (OD).txt =====

Introduction to Overdraft (OD)
If you have an overdraft account, then your bank would be able to manage cheques that had otherwise bounced and ultimately returned without resulting in any sort of payment. In the case of a loan, the candidate pays interest over the outstanding balance linked to an overdraft loan. It has been analyzed that, the interest on the loan is fairly lower as compared to credit cards. Moreover, in several cases, additional fees are also added for accessing overdraft protection.

Also Know: What is the current rate of interest on overdraft?

Does an overdraft hamper your credit score? It is decided by your bank to opt for using its own funds to aid a specific overdraft. The other option is to associate an overdraft with a particular credit card.

Case I: When the bank uses its personal funds for backing an overdraft, in this case, there won’t be any harm to your credit score.
Case II: When a credit card gets involved for overdraft protection, then there is a possibility that the customer can increase his/her debt to a stage where it can surely affect the credit score.
Suppose you aren’t able to pay the overdrafts under the scheduled time frame. If this happens, the bank can transfer your account to a collection organization. Therefore, such a collection action might affect your personal credit score and would eventually get reported with the chief credit agencies.

Comparison of Business Loan Interest Rates offered by Top Banks/NBFCs
Bank/NBFCs Interest Rate
Axis Bank 10.75% p.a. onwards
Flexiloans 1% per month onwards
HDB Financial Services Ltd. 8% - 26% p.a.
HDFC Bank 10.75% - 25% p.a.
IDFC First Bank 10.50% p.a. onwards
Indifi 1.50% per month onwards
Kotak Mahindra Bank 16% - 26% p.a.
Lendingkart 12% - 27% p.a.
Mcapital 2% per month onwards
NeoGrowth Finance 15% - 40% p.a.
Tata Capital 12% p.a. onwards
UGRO Capital 9% - 36% p.a.
Bajaj Finserv 10% to 26%
Advantages of Overdraft over Personal Loan
Considering a personal overdraft, the customer is permitted to withdraw funds as well as repay them at his/her convenience. Moreover, you only need to pay interest on the amount that stays overdue. It means that you can re-compensate the portion of the outstanding value whenever there is money in your hand, and simultaneously withdraw a certain amount whenever there is a requirement.

Furthermore, in India, there are banks that manage overdraft limits that can exceed 2-3 times over the individual’s salary or earnings. Apart from such benefits, there are several other advantages that make a personal overdraft a better option than a personal loan.

1. Quick Fund Release
To access a personal loan, there is a need to fulfill a lot of paperwork. Moreover, you are also bound to present a satisfactory CIBIL score to be eligible to acquire the loan. However, for accessing an Overdraft, you are not required to wait for so long as everything is managed in a quick method.

As soon as you have completed the initial setup concerned for an Overdraft, money can be withdrawn within a few hours. On the other hand, if you have opted for a Personal Loan, there would be a similar process every single time when money is transferred, and that too under 3-5 business days.

2. Elasticity
With personal loans, there isn’t much scope for flexibility. The customer is required to pay EMI throughout the loan duration, with the payments being timely delivered. However, this can become a huge mess for many people, particularly for those who need to offer a larger amount of Variable Pay. Hence, a personal loan cannot be seen as an ideal option for such situations.

Under a personal overdraft, you are allowed to make money based on your limit as well as payback as per your convenience. The customer can repay the amount within days or months, depending on their capability. This makes this option quite flexible or elastic.

3. Credit Score Safety
If an individual is frequently availing or repaying loans, there is a greater chance that his/her credit score might change repeatedly. If this happens frequently, then it would be difficult for you to obtain credit cards or loan in the near future.

This condition can be settled by opting for OD Limit. Under this facility, you will be offered only a single loan that you are frequently servicing. Hence, this would offer a positive lift to your score.

You can actively contact your Bank branch to assist you with the details concerned with the overdraft facility. Moreover, the customer care service is another option that could inform you about various factors associated to overdraft loan.

How is the overdraft limit calculated?
The financial health of an individual, enterprise or company determines the overdraft limit. There are various factors involved in calculating the overdraft limit, such as financial stability, account balance, age of account with bank, creditworthiness, relationship with bank, debts or defaults if any, and much more.

What happens if you exceed your Overdraft limit?
Generally, a borrower is allowed to use cash, only until the sanctioned limit. He/she is not permitted to cross the overdraft limit.

Who offers OD limit loan?
Almost every Private and Public Sector Bank offers OD loan and some of the leading banks include SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Punjab National Bank, etc.

Can I withdraw overdraft money?
Certainly, overdraft itself is termed as a credit instrument, wherein borrowers have access to withdraw cash, as per their requirements from the total sanctioned limit.

Can I increase my overdraft limit?
Increase or decrease of the overdraft limit totally depends on the sole discretion of the lender or bank. You can approach the lender and place the request for an increase in the overdraft limit.

What happens if I can’t pay my overdraft?
The bank may charge certain fees or may deduct the outstanding amount directly from your bank account.

How much interest do you pay on an overdraft?
The interest rate offered on overdraft facilities varies from bank to bank and depends on your profile and relationship with the bank in which you have your savings or current account.

Over-draft against Deposits - NRI
eatures
Permissible Limit
The limit of overdraft against deposits will be as per following table. Overdraft limit cannot be changed by the customer.

TDR/eTDR - 75% of the face value of deposit
STDR/eSTDR - 90% of the face value of deposit
Loan Amount : As per following
Minimum: Rs. 25,000/-n
Maximum: Rs. 5.00 crores
Rate of Interest : 1.00% above the interest payable on the Fixed Deposit
Cut-off time : The online opening of Overdraft facility will be available between 08:00 to 20:00 hrs IST.
Disbursement : Overdraft account will be opened in the internet banking itself and withdrawal/transfer of fund from this account can be made either through internet banking facility or Cheques. Please note that, request for Cheque book has to be placed separately by you through internet banking facility.
Tenure: As per following
TDR/eTDR : 3 years or remaining maturity period of Fixed Deposit, whichever is lower. The monthly/quarterly/half yearly interest payable on TDR/eTDR will continue to be credited to the account as originally opted by you.
STDR/eSTDR : 5 years or remaining maturity period of Fixed Deposit, whichever is lower.
Rollover / renewal of the TDR/STDR/eTDR/eSTDR : Mandate for rollover / renewal of the TDR/STDR/eTDR/eSTDR given at the time of opening of underlying deposit account will be treated as cancelled if the Overdraft account is not closed on or before the loan tenure.
Closure of Overdraft account : The closure of Overdraft account before or on maturity or end of term of TDR/STDR/eTDR/ eSTDR will be done through Home Branch only. Please note that, presently there is no provision in internet banking for closure of such Overdraft account.
Eligibility
Available to customers having NRE / NRO Fixed Deposits (TDR / STDR / eTDR / eSTDR) in single name (holder) only and with a minimum residual period of 6 months. Deposit with joint holders are not eligible under the scheme. TDR/STDR not opened through internet banking facility have to be mapped to internet banking for availing this facility.
Procedure to create Overdraft account : Following steps have to be execute
Please login to your INB account
Please click on ‘e-Fixed Deposit’ tab
Please click on ‘Overdraft against Fixed Deposit’ from the column on left hand side
Please select a deposit and proceed accordingly

===== Overdraft Loan.txt =====

An overdraft is a credit feature offered by private and public sector banks that permits you to withdraw an amount as per your requirements. Borrowers can repay the withdrawn amount at their convenience. The interest rate is charged only on the utilized amount from the total sanctioned limit.

Eligibility Criteria for availing Overdraft
The eligibility criteria for overdraft facility is mentioned below:

Age Criteria: Minimum 21 years and maximum 65 years
Bank Account: Applicant should have existing bank account with the respective bank
Income Criteria: Depends on lender
Good CIBIL or credit score shall be an added advantage
Business existence: Varies from bank to bank
Documents Required for Overdraft Loan
Duly filled application form with Passport-sized photographs
Identity Proof: Passport, Voter ID card, Driving License, PAN card, Aadhar card
Address Proof: Utility Bills (Water/Electricity Bills), Passport, Driving License, Voter ID card
Age Proof: Passport, Class X certificate
Last 12 months’ bank statement
Any other document required by the lender
Overdraft Interest Rates – Fees & Charges
The interest rates, fees and charges vary from bank to bank and shall depend on the applicant’s profile and his/her relationship with the bank.

Also Check: Business Loan Interest Rates of all Banks & NBFCs

Features of Overdraft Loan
Overdraft account is a facility that can be availed by maintaining any bank account
Several private sector banks are now offering this facility for both salary and savings account holders
The money extension is granted on the basis of customer’s account value, repayment history or credit score
It is short-term credit provided by the bank that needs to be paid within the stipulated time limit
Credit amount or overdraft attracts interest for the time of use which can be from a couple of days to a few weeks
Repayment tenure is decided by the bank and it has full authority over the account and its use
As per the RBI regulations, current accounts and cash credit accounts are eligible for a maximum of Rs. 50,000 per week
Benefits of Overdraft Loan
Flexible use of cash in small portions
Fulfils urgent cash crunch requirements
Helps in managing the cash flow of business
Interest is paid only on the utilized amount
Less paperwork
No collateral is required by banks/NBFCs
Short-term borrowing – revises every year
How to Access Overdraft Facility
Customer can avail Overdraft Loan through multiple channels like internet banking, mobile app or by visiting your bank branch. Overdraft Loan facility application varies from one bank to another. Depending on your bank, you can follow any of the following procedures:

Login through Internet Banking, mobile app and click on the offer displayed in the ‘offers tab’. Click on ‘Avail Now’ to get your overdraft facility activated.
Visit your bank branch and fill out the form to avail overdraft facility
Difference between Overdraft vs Term Loan
Individuals in search of immediate funds from banks would be quite interested in learning about the prime difference between Overdraft vs term loan. This information is important to judge which one in better, when there is any sort of monetary hassle in your life. The major dissimilarities are mentioned as follows:

An overdraft option is a form of credit which is offered to an individual or organization based on a current account. In addition, the amount which is withdrawn varies depending on the customer’s requirement. However, a regular loan talks about a fixed amount that is borrowed from a specific bank highlighting a stated repayment duration
Considering an overdraft, the rate of interest is charged specifically on the borrowed overdraft amount and not on the stated limit; however, for a regular loan, the rate of interest is applied on the whole amount borrowed, regardless if it is completely utilized or not
Generally, an overdraft is accessed for a lesser duration and the candidate isn’t allowed to borrow large amounts due to limits on credit. On the other hand, a loan is accessible for a longer period, ranging from 1 to 10 years, with the availability to take large sums
An OD is ideal to fulfill working capital needs such as daily fund requirements. However, loans prove beneficial for capital investments such as new buildings, new machinery, etc.
Under OD facility, payment option would be made possible in a lump sum which can be shut anytime. However, the customer’s credit limit can differ subject to his/her credit score. You can call it more flexible when considering the payment scheme. With regular loans, EMIs are involved that need to be paid on a schedule. If the EMI payments are not made timely, it can harm the customer’s credit ratings
