Who We Are - NABARD - National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Home Skip to Main Content -A A +A A A A A A Sitemap Help हिन्दी National Portal National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development fostering rural prosperity Contact us About Us Who we are What we do Board of Directors Organogram HO Departments Regional Offices DDMs/DDOs (District Offices) Subsidiaries Training Establishments Information Centre Circulars Financial Reports Model Bankable Projects Publications Case Studies Unit Cost Credit Linked Plans National Level Papers State Level Papers State Focus Paper Potential Linked Plans Statewise Scale of Finance Govt. Sponsored Schemes Interest Rates Investor Relations Act & Regulations Debarred NGOs RTI NABARD in G20 Secured Assets SARFAESI Act BASEL III Disclosure Media Room Fair Lending Practices Project Locator Tenders Career Notices Scroll Down Who We Are NABARD is India’s apex development bank, established in 1982 under an Act of Parliament to promote sustainable and equitable agriculture and rural development. In its journey of more than four decades, the premier development financial institution has transformed lives in Indian villages through agri-finance, infrastructure development, banking technology, promotion of microfinance and rural entrepreneurship through SHGs & JLGs and more. It continues to aid in nation building through participative financial and non-financial interventions, innovations, technology and institutional development in rural areas. Genesis The recognition of the importance of institutional credit in boosting rural economy by the Government of India led to the inception of a Committee to review the Arrangements for Institutional Credit for Agriculture and Rural Development (CRAFICARD). This was established under the able Chairmanship of Shri B. Sivaraman, former Member of Planning Commission on 30 March 1979. Based on the Committee’s interim report recommendation, the creation of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) was approved by the Parliament through Act 61 of 1981. This unique development financial institution was created to focus on credit related issues linked with rural development With this intent, the agricultural credit functions of RBI and refinance functions of the then Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) was transferred to NABARD. It was dedicated to the service of the nation by the late Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi on 05 November 1982. As a fully owned Government of India entity, NABARD continues to pen stories of prosperity in rural India. Vision Development Bank of the Nation for Fostering Rural Prosperity Mission Promote sustainable and equitable agriculture and rural development through participative financial and non-financial interventions, innovations, technology and institutional development for securing prosperity. Quick Links Citizen's Charter Other Related Links Public Notices Grievances / Enquiry / Feedback Right to Information Glossary Tenders Contact Us Financial Supervisory Interest Rates GOVT. Sponsored Scheme Financial Reports Publications Acts & Regulations Case Studies Warehouse Directory Investor Relations Debarred NGOs by NABARD Privacy Statement Clarifications Fraud Complaints Other NABARD Links Gender Policy of NABARD Department of Financial Services Internal Committee Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act,2013 ESMS Document For Solar Rooftop Investment Program (Tranche 3) Follow Us National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer © NABARD. Site By Cyfuture India Pvt Ltd. Scroll Up