===== home loan.txt =====

Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs)
What is Pre-EMI?
Under the Pre-EMI option, the borrower is required to pay only the interest on the loan amount that will be disbursed as per the progress on the construction of the project. The actual EMI payment starts after the possession of the house.
What does a home insurance policy cover?
Home insurance policies cover the house structure as well as its contents or possessions. Many insurance policies also combine various personal insurance features too.
What is covered under personal possessions?
Under personal possessions, home insurance companies generally cover furniture, electronic/electrical gadgets and jewellery under personal possessions. However, the maximum liability of these items depends upon the type of insurance cover sought or valuations done by the bank.
Can a Home Loan be Pre-approved?
Yes. One can avail of a pre-approved loan from the bank.
How do banks value the property for insurance purposes?
Property valuation is done by multiplying the built up area of the property with the cost of construction per square feet. This is the usual method followed by most banks.
What should be the language of the registration document?
The language of the registration document must be the one that is commonly / prominently used in your district. According to Section 19 of the Indian Registration Act, the Registering Officer or the Registrar has the discretionary authority to decline the registration of your document if it is presented in a language which is not commonly used in the district, unless and until it is accompanied with the authentic translation of the language in use.
What are the types of insurances available with Home Loan?
Term Insurance product (SBI Suraksha) is offered by SBI Life Insurance Company which offers financial coverage to the insured borrowers for full Home Loan tenor. In case of death of the insured individual during the policy term, the death benefit is paid by the company to the beneficiary Home loan account. This insurance is optional.
Mandatory Property insurance that covers private residences and protects them from unpredictable damages and natural disasters.
Do women get concessional interest rates for SBI Home Loans?
There is a concessional interest rate of 0.05% p.a. if woman is main applicant/co-applicant.
What is the tax rebate available on a home loan?
Interest paid on housing loans is allowed as a deduction to the extent of 2 lakh in respect of self-occupied property. In order to provide a further impetus, an additional deduction of up to 1,50,000/- for interest paid on loans borrowed up to 31st March, 2020 for purchase of an affordable house valued up to 45 lakh.
The Principal portion of the EMI paid for the year is allowed as deduction under Section 80C. The maximum amount that can be claimed is up to Rs 1.5 lakh.
What are the various documents needed to apply for a home loan?
Tentative List of papers/ documents applicable to all applicants:
Loan Application: Completed loan application form duly filled in affixed with passport size photographs.
In case of KYC compliant Saving Bank accounts:
No fresh KYC document is required.
Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.
PAN to be provided in case of non-availability of PAN in Bank’s record.
In case of KYC non-compliant Saving Bank accounts:
Proof of Identity (Anyone): PAN/ Passport/ Driver’s License/ Voter ID card.
Proof of Residence/ Address (Anyone): Recent copy of Telephone Bill/ Electricity Bill/Water Bill/ Piped Gas Bill or copy of Passport/ Driving License/ Aadhar Card.
Property Papers:
Permission for construction (where applicable)
Registered Agreement for Sale (only for Maharashtra)/Allotment Letter/Stamped Agreement for Sale
Occupancy Certificate (in case of ready to move property)
Share Certificate (only for Maharashtra), Maintenance Bill, Electricity Bill, Property Tax Receipt
Approved Plan copy (Xerox Blueprint) & Registered Development Agreement of the builder, Conveyance Deed (For New Property)
Payment Receipts or bank A/C statement showing all the payments made to Builder/Seller
Account Statement:
Last 6 months Bank Account Statements for all Bank Accounts held by the applicant/s
If any previous loan from other Banks/Lenders, then Loan A/C statement for last 1 year
Income Proof for Salaried Applicant/ Co-applicant/ Guarantor:
Salary Slip or Salary Certificate of last 3 months
Copy of Form 16 for last 2 years or copy of IT Returns for last 2 financial years, acknowledged by IT Dept.
Income Proof for Non-Salaried Applicant/ Co-applicant/ Guarantor:
Business address proof
IT returns for last 3 years
Balance Sheet & Profit & Loss A/c for last 3 years
Business License Details(or equivalent)
TDS Certificate (Form 16A, if applicable)
Certificate of qualification (for C.A./ Doctor and other professionals)
What are the general eligibility conditions for availing a home loan?
The general eligibility conditions are as follows:
The borrower should be a resident of India or an NRI
He / she should be above 18years of age at the beginning of the loan
Repayment should be up to the age of 70 years.
How does my salary influence my home loan amount?
Apart from other criteria and norms of the lending bank, the home loan amount is generally calculated on the basis of your EMI and NMI ratio, where NMI is the take-home pay after taxes and other payroll deductions. The EMI/NMI ratio varies in the range of 20% to 70% for different Net Annual Income slabs. The loan amount can be increased by including a co-applicant.
Can I apply jointly with my spouse? Will both our salaries be taken into consideration for calculating the loan amount?
Yes, your salaries can be clubbed for the purpose of calculation of the loan amount. This can be done either when the property is jointly held with the spouse or the spouse stands as a guarantor. Thus, we ensure a great deal of flexibility in the entire exercise of financing your house.
What is the normal time required for disbursement of a home loan?
On an average, loans are disbursed within 3-10 days after satisfactory and complete documentation and completion of all the required procedures.
Can I sell the property even when the home loan is outstanding?
Yes, you can sell the property with the prior consent of the financing bank.
If the buyer wants to take a loan to buy the property, the process is much easier if he/she approaches the same bank. In these cases, the bank does not need to release the property papers to another bank before getting the payment.
If the buyer wants to make a payment outright, he can make it to the bank directly. The property papers will be released only after the bank has recovered the entire loan amount and other dues.
Can I get an in-principle approval and actually avail of the loan later?
What we do is, before you choose the house you want to buy, we give you an in-principle approval based on your income and capacity to repay. This makes the entire process of identifying and buying a house easier and more flexible. You won't be under pressure to identify a house as you know how much funds the bank would make available to you.
If I have money, is it still necessary to avail of a bank loan for buying a home?
It is generally advantageous to go for a home loan as it helps you in availing tax benefits. However, please consult your CA or tax advisor to discuss the pros and cons.
What security do I have to furnish?
SBI requires a mortgage of the property for which the loan is being taken. Where mortgage can't be provided, other tangible security would need to be provided. The title of the property should be clear, for which a certificate would be required from the Bank's approved advocate, safeguarding your interests as well as Bank's interests.
Additional security may be required where the house is under construction. This may be for an interim period, by way of tangible security or guarantees from sound and solvent individuals.
How does SBI housing loan compare with those offered by other institutions?
Our rates are most competitive in the Industry.
We have more than 21 different home loan schemes customized to suit your requirements.
There is total transparency with regard to the rate of interest and the fees charged by us.
We offer housing loans with low equated monthly instalments, i.e. you pay substantially less in repayments as compared to others.
The loan amount is determined by repaying capacity and the value of property to be financed.
We offer loans up to 30 years with the flexibility provided to reduce the tenor by prepaying the loan without any penalty.
We provide finance for both new and old houses/flats and for construction of houses. Cost of furnishing the house may also be included in the project cost.
We levy interest based on daily reducing balance, unlike the annual reducing balance method used by several other financiers/banks.
What is the mode of payment for NRI home loans?
The housing loan needs to be paid for the entire tenure of the loan by funds received in India through banking channels by way of inward remittance from any place outside India or (ii) funds held in any non-resident account maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations framed thereunder.
Can an NRI/PIO acquire residential/commercial property by way of a gift under the general permission available?
An NRI/PIO can acquire any immovable property in India other than agricultural land/ farm house/ plantation property by way of gift from a person resident in India or from an NRI or from an OCI, who in any case is a relative as defined in section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013.
What should be the mode of payment for purchase of residential/commercial property in India by an NRI/PIO?
Funds received in India through banking channels by way of inward remittance from any place outside India or
Funds held in any non-resident account maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations framed thereunder.
Provided further that no payment for any transfer of immovable property shall be made either by traveller’s cheque or by foreign currency notes or by any other mode other than those specifically permitted under this clause.
What is EBLR?
EBLR stands for External Benchmark Lending Rate. SBI has adopted Repo Rate as the external benchmark to link its floating rate home loans with effect from 01.10.2019.
Can existing borrowers avail the benefits of the new interest rate?
Yes, floating rate home loan borrowers with regular account conduct as on the date of switch over, can be migrated to the new interest rate structure.
What are the charges for migrating to the new structure?
One time switch over fee of Rs. 1000/-* + taxes is applicable.
*Conditions apply.
When will my interest rate change?
The Interest Rate reset under EBLR may be done by the Bank from time to time as per Banks extant guidelines in force
Is EBLR a home loan new product?
No. It is a new interest rate structure. All floating rate home loans will have interest rates linked to External Benchmark.
What is the minimum Loan amount & max loan amount available under Insta Top Up Loan?
Min. Rs. 50,000, Max Rs. 8,00,000
How can I know my Home Loan Eligibility?
Your Home Loan Eligibility is communicated in the In-Principle Sanction conveyed during your application on our website or on the YONO App.
Can I authorize someone else to register my property by granting him a Power of Attorney?
Yes, you can execute a Special Power Of Attorney to get your property registered by someone else.
What is a Power Of Attorney?
A Power of Attorney allows a person to grant another person the right to make decisions regarding the person's assets, finances and real estate properties.
There are two types of power of attorney.First, the 'General Power of Attorney' where a property owner confers 'general' rights. The rights include but are not limited to sell, lease, sub-lease etc. The second one is the 'Special Power of Attorney' wherein only a specific right is given by the owner to the chosen person.
What is the process to register my property?
Registration of a property includes necessary stamping and paying of registration charges for a sale deed and getting it recorded at the sub-registrar's office of the concerned jurisdictional area. If a property is purchased from a developer directly, getting it registered amounts to an act of legal conveyance. In case the purchased property is a second or third transaction, it involves a duly stamped and registered transfer deed. Nowadays, property registration process has been completely computerized in most states.
What is the meaning of property registration?
It refers to the registering of documents relating to transfer, sale, lease or any other form of disposal of an immovable property. Registration is compulsory by law for all properties under Section 17 of the Indian Registrations Act, 1908. Once a property has been registered lawfully, it means that the person in whose favour the property has been registered, is the lawful owner of the premises and is fully responsible for it in all respects.
What documents would I need at the time of possession?
Original copies of the chain of title agreements and Building Plan approvals
Original registration and stamp duty receipts
Possession Letter
Original share certificate (In case of societies)
Proof of payment of all dues like maintenance charges, electricity bills, phone, water and property taxes up to the date of handing possession
NOC from the Society or any other concerned body confirming that there is no objection to the transfer
How can I verify that the documents shown to me by the seller are genuine?
Project approvals can be verified from the corporation or the sanctioning authority's office
Ownership documents can be confirmed from the Sub Registrar's office wherein they are registered
Share certificates related to societies can be verified from the concerned society itself
What documents do I need to check if I am buying a resale property?
Clear and marketable Title, Sale Deed, Encumbrance Certificate, latest tax receipts, Occupancy Certificate, Building Plan Approvals and Possession Certificate.
What documents are required to get a resale property duly registered?
New Sale Deed, PAN Card and photographs.
What documents are required for registration of a new apartment/plot?
Sale Deed, No Objection Certificate (NOC) from builder, NOC from banks, Building Plan approvals, Completion Certificate, PAN Card and photographs.
What documents are needed for registration of an independent house?
Allotment papers of the plot, Building Plan approvals, Transfer Deed (in case of multiple owners), Sale Deed, PAN Card and photographs.
What is an EMI?
EMI or Equated Monthly Instalment is a fixed amount paid by you to the bank on a specific date every month. The EMI's are fixed when you borrow money from the bank as a loan. EMI's are used to pay both interest and principal amount of a loan in a way that over a specific number of years, the loan amount is repaid to the bank alongwith interest.
What documents should I check before buying a new property?
Sale Deed
Title Deed
Approved Building plans
Completion Certificate (For Newly constructed property)
Commencement Certificate (For Under-construction property)
Conversion Certificate( If agricultural land is converted to non-agricultural)
Khata Certificate (especially in Bengaluru)
Encumbrance Certificate
Latest Tax Receipts
Occupancy Certificate
Whether balance transfer with sanction of Higher Loan Amount & extended Repayment Period is possible?
Yes. Based on the merits of the case and requirements/ eligibility of the borrower, the Bank may sanction an amount higher than the amount taken over from other bank/ financial institution for purposes of renovation/ extension/ furnishings. Similarly extended repayment period may be sanctioned provided that at all times the criteria regarding maximum permissible finance and security margin under the Bank's scheme are not diluted.
Is pre-payment penalty funded in balance transfers?
Yes. Total loan quantum, will however, continue to be determined by eligibility criteria based on income, EMI/NMI ratio, LTV ratio etc. applicable to Home Loans scheme.
What are the processing fees charged by the bank?
Processing Fee applicable is 0.35% of the Loan Amount plus applicable GST - Minimum of Rs. 2000 + GST and Maximum of Rs. 10,000 + GST
Out of pocket expenses like CERSAI charges and Professional fee for Legal Opinion and Valuation also will be recovered.
What is a down payment?
Generally, banking & finance institutions pay around 75% to 85% of the cost of the property bought. The remaining 25% to 15% of the amount is paid on an up-front basis, which is popularly known as the down payment.
What is a home loan?
Home loan is the money borrowed from a bank or a housing finance institution on interest for buying / constructing / upgrading a residential real estate property.
What is the average tenure of a home loan?
As home loans involve a large sum of money, the tenure generally varies between 3 to 30 years.
Does the tenure affect the loan cost?
Longer the tenure you have, the lesser will be your EMI but higher would be the interest outgo. In shorter tenures, you pay a greater EMI, but the loan gets repaid faster and you pay less by way of interest.
Is balance transfer of Home Loan with Home Top Up loan permitted?
Yes. Home Loan with Home Top up loan can be taken over subject to Maximum Loan To Value of 75 % and fulfillment of other terms and conditions of balance transfer.
What are the types of Home loans available?
Home Purchase Loan: It is the most common type of loan taken for purchasing a new residential property or an old house from its previous owner.
Home Improvement Loan: Home improvement loans are given for executing repair and renovation work at home.
Home Construction Loan: These loans are sanctioned to construct a house on a piece of land you have already purchased. The loan approval and application process for these loans is somewhat different from the other commonly available home loans.
Home Extension Loan: Home extension loans are offered for expanding or extending an existing house. To cite a few examples, addition of an extra room, a floor etc.
Land Purchase Loan: This type of loan is granted for the purchase of a residential plot for construction of a residential unit thereon as per Bank’s norms.
Home Conversion Loans: These loans are available for people who have already purchased a house by taking a home loan but would now want to buy and move to another house. With these loans, they can fund the purchase of the new house by transferring the current loan to the new house.
Balance Transfer Loan: These loans are availed to transfer one's home loan from one bank to another. It is usually done to repay the remaining amount of loan at lower interest rates or when a customer is unhappy with the services provided by his existing home loan provider and wants to switch to a different bank.
NRI Home loans: These are specialized loans, structured to suit the requirements of NRI's who wish to build or buy a home in India.
Loan against Property (LAP): These loans are given or disbursed against the mortgage of a property.
What is the difference between fixed rate and floating rate of interest?
In the fixed interest rate scenario, the interest remains constant throughout the loan period irrespective of the changes in market conditions while in the floating interest rate scenario, the interest can decrease or increase depending on market fluctuations.
How is the interest rate calculated?
The interest on home loans is usually calculated either on monthly reducing or yearly reducing or daily reducing balance by Bank. 'SBI charges interest on daily reducing balance'.
Specifics are mentioned below: -
Annual reducing method:In this system, the principal, for which you pay interest, reduces at the end of the year. Thus, you continue to pay interest on a certain portion of the principal that you have actually paid back to the lender. This means that the EMI for the monthly reducing system is effectively less than the annual reducing system.
Monthly reducing method:In this system, the principal, for which you pay interest, reduces every month as you pay your EMI.
Daily Reducing method:In this system, the principal, for which you pay interest, reduces from the day you pay your EMI. EMI in the daily reducing system is less than in the monthly reducing system and a year is treated as consisting of 365 days irrespective of leap or non-leap year.
How do I benefit if the interest is calculated on a daily reducing balance for SBI Home Loans?
On an annual reducing balance method, you will continue to pay interest on amounts you repay during the coming one year as the interest for the year is determined on the basis of the balance outstanding at the beginning of the year.
In the case of the daily reducing balance, which is the methodology we employ, your interest is calculated only on the outstanding loan amount, which reduces every time you pay off your EMIs or make any prepayments. This in essence lowers your effective rate of interest significantly.
Interest applied monthly / at the time of closure in my Home Loan account is in decimals or in round figure?
Charging of interest on advances for all transactions is rounded off to the nearest rupee.
Where can I avail SBI Housing loans?
You can apply for a Home Loan through the following online modes:

===== Home Loans.txt =====

Importance of Home Loans for Fulfilling Housing Dreams
State Bank of India (SBI) Home Loans have been instrumental in assisting numerous families in achieving their dream of homeownership. With highly competitive home loan interest rates in the market, SBI offers flexible loan tenures of up to 30 years, making repayments more manageable. The bank provides financing options covering up to 90% of the property's cost, ensuring accessibility for a wide range of customers. Additionally, SBI's home loan products include benefits such as low processing fees, no hidden charges, further enhancing affordability and transparency for borrowers.

Whether you are a salaried employee, self-employed professional, or an NRI looking to invest in Indian real estate, SBI Home Loans provide customized financial solutions to suit your needs.

SBI Home Loans: Comprehensive Solutions for Every Homebuyer
SBI understands that every homebuyer has unique requirements, and thus, offers a variety of home loan products to cater to different needs:

Regular Home Loans – For buying a new or resale property.
Home Construction Loans – For constructing a house on an owned plot.
Home Renovation & Extension Loans – For upgrading or expanding an existing property.
Balance Transfer Home Loans – Transfer your existing loan from another bank to SBI at lower home loan interest rates.
NRI Home Loans – Tailored for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) looking to purchase a property in India.
Why Choose SBI Home Loans?
Competitive Home Loan Interest Rates – Lower EMIs and cost-effective repayment.
Minimal Processing Fees – Reduces the upfront financial burden.
Flexible Repayment Tenures – Choose up to 30 years for easy repayment.
High Loan Amounts – Finance up to 90% of the property value.
Digital Convenience – Apply online via YONO SBI for a hassle-free experience.
Eligibility and Step-by-Step Application Process through YONO SBI
Home Loan Eligibility Criteria
Before applying, ensure that you meet the following home loan eligibility requirements:

The loan application process is open to Indian citizens, Non-Resident Indians (NRI’s) and Overseas Citizens of India (OCI).
Age eligibility: Minimum 18 years; Maximum 70 years at loan maturity.
The applicant must have a stable and reliable source of income, whether as a salaried employee, self-employed professional, or business owner.
Maintaining a healthy credit score improves your chances of home loan approval at if you maintain a healthy credit score
A property must have a clear legal title and comply with SBI's lending criteria to be eligible for financing.
How to Apply for a Home Loan Through YONO SBI App?
With SBI’s digital banking services, applying for a home loan is simple and quick:

Download YONO SBI App from Google Playstore / Appstore and login to app: Access your account using your credentials Select 'Home Loan': Navigate to the 'Loans' section and choose the 'Home Loan' option that fits your needs.
Provide Personal and Income Details: Fill in your personal detail, address, income and loan details. Subsequently, include any existing EMI obligations and, if applicable, co-applicant details.
Review Eligibility and Loan Details: Based on the provided details, the eligible loan amount, monthly Home Loan EMI, and loan tenure will be displayed, helping you plan your repayments effectively.
Submit the Details: After reviewing your information, submit your request. An SBI representative will reach out to guide you through the application process.
SBI Home Loans provide a complete financing solution to ensure a smooth home-buying journey.

Tips for a Successful Home Loan Application
To increase your chances of home loan approval, consider these important tips:

Ensure all documents (identity proof, income proof, and property documents) are complete and accurate.
Maintain a strong credit score A good credit score enhances your chances of home loan approval and helps secure better interest rates
Calculate affordability – Use the SBI Home Loan EMI Calculator to determine your monthly repayments.
Reduce Existing Debt – A lower debt-to-income ratio (DTI) enhances loan eligibility.
Turn Your Homeownership Dream into Reality with SBI
Owning a home represents a lasting financial commitment rather than mere property ownership. Through SBI’s home loans you will receive interest rates along with flexible financing options and professional assistance so you can achieve home ownership.

SBI Home Loan Highlights
Interest Rate 7.25% - 8.95% p.a.
Minimum Loan Amount Rs. 30 lakh
LTV Ratio Up to 75% of the property value
Loan Tenure Up to 30 years
Processing Charges Rs. 11,800
Rates as of 14th April 2026

SBI Home Loan Interest Rates 2026
Individuals availing SBI Home Loan through Paisabazaar can avail home loan interest rates starting from 7.25% p.a. However, the bank offers on sbi home loan interest rates depending on the applicant's credit score and the type of home loan applied for. However, the bank has not specified interest rate differentiation based on the loan amount, credit score, LTV ratio, job profile, employer’s profile, monthly income, etc. Nevertheless, the lender may consider these factors while setting home loan interest rates for their applicants.

SBI Home Loan Processing Fees and Charges
Particulars Details
Home Loan & Top-up Home Loan Rs. 11,800
NRI, Realty, Maxgain, CRE, Flexi-pay, Non-salaried, PAL, Trible Plus, Apon Ghar Loan above Rs 15 lakhs 0.35% of the loan amount (Rs 2,000-Rs 10,000)
YONO Insta Home Top-up Loan (Digital Product) Rs 2,000
Privilege and Shaurya Home Loan NIL
Apon Ghar (HL up to Rs 15 lakhs) NIL
Kerala Govt Employees Home Loans Scheme NIL

Types of SBI Home Loan
Regular Home Loan
Purpose: SBI offers a Regular Home Loan scheme for financing the purchase of already built/under construction property and the purchase of pre-owned homes. Those seeking to avail home construction loan for financing the construction of their home property or avail home renovation loan for carrying out repair/renovation/extension of their existing house property can avail the SBI Regular Home Loan scheme.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
NRI Home Loan
Purpose: SBI offers NRI Home Loans to Non-Resident Indians for purchasing residential properties in India.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Flexipay Home Loan
Purpose: SBI offers Flexipay Home Loan to salaried applicants wherein they can avail higher loan amounts. The repayment tenure of SBI Flexi Home Loan is divided into two terms – the pre-EMI period where the borrower pays only the interest component and the balance period where the borrower pays both the interest and the principal component.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Home Loan Balance Transfer
Purpose: SBI Home Loan Balance Transfer is offered to existing home loan borrowers of other banks/HFCs to transfer their housing loans to State Bank of India at lower interest rates.

SBI Privilege Home Loan
Purpose: Government employees working with central/state government, public sector banks, public sector undertakings and other individuals with pensionable services can avail SBI Privilege Home Loan Scheme.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Shaurya Home Loan
Purpose: SBI Shaurya Home Loan scheme is a special home loan scheme designed for army and defense personnel with lower interest rates, easy repayment options and a longer repayment period.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Pre-Approved Home Loan
Purpose: SBI Pre-approved Home Loan facility allows prospective home loan applicants to obtain pre-approved loan sanction even before finalizing the property. This allows the applicants to confidently negotiate with the builders/sellers. This sanction is offered on the basis of the income of the home loan applicant.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Realty Home Loan
Purpose: Prospective home loan borrowers can avail SBI Realty (Plot) Home Loan to raise funds for plot purchase and home construction thereon, provided the construction begins within 5 years from the date of loan sanction.
Loan Amount: Up to Rs 15 crore
Tenure: Up to 10 years
SBI Top-up Home Loan
Purpose: SBI offers SBI Top-up Home Loan facility to its existing home loan borrowers wherein they can avail additional loan amounts over and above their existing home loans for any personal use.
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI YONO Insta Home Top-up Loan
Purpose: Pre-select existing home loan borrowers of SBI can avail SBI YONO Insta Home Top-up Loan, to meet their personal requirements. This is an instant top-up home loan facility offered through a completely digital process over the SBI YONO app.

SBI Home Loan to Non-Salaried- Differential Offerings
Purpose: SBI Housing Loan to Non-Salaried-Differential Offerings is a special home loan scheme designed for non-salaried applicants to finance the purchase and construction of homes, repair and renovation of existing dwelling units and balance transfer of existing home loans from other lenders to SBI.
Loan Amount: Rs 50,000-Rs 5 crore
Tenure: Up to 30 years
SBI Tribal Plus
Purpose: SBI Tribal Plus is a special home loan scheme designed for individuals residing in tribal/hilly areas. The applicants can avail the home loan scheme for the purchase/construction of a new house/flat, the purchase of an existing house/flat not more than 10 years old, and repair/renovation/extension of existing home properties.
Loan Amount:
For Salaried Individuals- Up to Rs 20 lakh
For Non-Salaried Individuals – Up to Rs 15 lakh
Tenure: Up to 15 years
SBI Maxgain Home Loan

Purpose: SBI Maxgain is a home loan overdraft facility offered to applicants planning to purchase ready-to-move-in properties. The borrowers are required to meet their EMIs just like they do for Regular Home Loans. However, the drawing power on the overdraft facility gets reduced monthly to the extent of the principal balance.

SBI Home Loan Eligibility Criteria
SBI offers home loans depending on the age and job profile of its applicants. Below-mentioned are the criteria depending on which SBI evaluates the home loan eligibility of its applicants.

Types Eligibility
For SBI Regular Home Loans/Home Loan Balance Transfer/Pre-Approved Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 70 years
Nationality: Resident Indian
For SBI NRI Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 60 years
Nationality: Non-Resident Indian and Person of Indian Origin
For SBI Flexipay Home Loan Minimum age: 21-45 years
Maximum age: 70 years
Job Profile: Salaried
Nationality: Indian
For SBI Privilege Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 75 years
Nationality: Resident Indian
Job Profile: Government employees working with the central or state government, public sector banks, public sector undertakings of the central government and other individuals with pensionable service.
For SBI Shaurya Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 75 years
Nationality: Resident Indian
Job Profile: Army and Defence Personnel
For SBI Realty Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 65 years
Nationality: Indian
For SBI Top-up Home Loan Minimum age: 18 years
Maximum age: 70 years
Nationality: Resident Indian/NRIs
For SBI YONO Insta Home Top-up Loan Pre-selected customers based on various credit checks such as satisfactory repayment, residual loan tenure, etc.
For SBI Home Loan to Non-Salaried-Differential Offerings Minimum age: 18 years
Nationality: Resident Indian
Job Profile: Non-Salaried, if the applicant is a proprietor in a proprietorship firm, or is one of the partners in a partnership firm, or is a director in a company, the company/firm:-
Should be in existence for at least 3 years
Should have earned Net Profit in the past 2 years
Regular and standard existing credit facilities
If the proposed house property is jointly acquired by a proprietor and proprietary firm, the firm should be debt-free or an existing borrower
For SBI Tribal Loan Minimum age: 21 years
Maximum age: 60 years
Nationality: Resident Indian

In addition to the above-mentioned SBI home loan eligibility criteria, the lender may also consider factors like monthly income, EMI/NMI ratio and credit score of the home loan applicants for evaluating their home loan eligibility.

Documents Required for SBI Home Loan
SBI has provided a list of documents required for availing home loans. Below-mentioned is the detailed list of documents required for availing home loans from State Bank of India.

General Documents for SBI Housing Loan
ID card of the employer
Duly filled application form with 3 passport-sized photographs
ID Proof: PAN/Voter ID/Passport/Driving License
Address Proof: Copy of telephone bill/electricity bill/water bill/piped gas bill/passport copy/Aadhar card
Credit Score (Check credit score for free if not checked already)
General Documents for SBI NRI Home Loan
Employer Identity Card
Attested copy of valid Passport and visa
Address proof of current overseas address
Loan application form duly filled with 3 Passport size photographs
For applicants employed in the merchant navy – Copy of Continuous Discharge Certificate (CDC)
For PIOs – PIO Card issued by the Government of India
The attestation of documents may be done by Offices or Indian Embassy/Consulate, FOs/Rep. or Overseas Notary Public or officials of Branch/Sourcing outfits based in India
Property Papers
Permission for construction
Sale agreement registered (only Maharashtra), Allotment letter, Stamped Sale Agreement
Occupancy certificate (ready to move in), maintenance bill, electricity bill, property tax receipt
Copy of plan approved and Registered Development Agreement of the builder, Conveyance Deed (For New Property)
Registered Development Agreement of the builder
Conveyance Deed
Bank account details or payment receipts for payments made to the builder
Account Statement
Bank account statement for the last 6 months for all bank accounts
Loan account statement for the last 1 year for previous loans from other financial institutions
For NRIs – Bank account details for the last 6 months overseas account having salary, savings and Indian account, if any
Salaried Applicant/Co-applicant/Guarantor Income Proof
Last 3 months salary slip/certificate
Copy of ITR/Form 16, acknowledged by IT Department
For NRIs:
Valid work permit
Copy of last year’s Individual Tax Return except for NRIs/PIOs located in Middle East countries and employees in the Merchant Navy
Employment contract – an English translation duly attested by the employer or consulate or foreign office or Embassy in case it is in any other language
Latest salary certificate /slip in original and a copy of the identity card issued by the current employer
Last 3 months salary slip/certificate
Bank Statement of last 6 months showing salary credit
Non-Salaried Applicant/Co-applicant/Guarantor Income Proof
ITR for the last 3 years
Business Address Proof
Profit and loss account and balance sheet for last 3 years
TDS Certificate (Form 16A)
Qualification Certificate for CA, Doctors and other professionals
Business License Details
Individual Tax Return of last 2 years, except for NRI/PIO located in Middle east countries
Bank Statement of overseas account of last 6 months in the name of individual as well as company/unit
Proof of business address
Proof of income in case of self-employed professionals/businessmen
Audited/C.A. certified Balance Sheet and P&L accounts of last 2 years
How to Apply for SBI Home Loan Online
Prospective home loan borrowers can apply for an home loan online through the SBI YONO app or directly through the official website of the bank. They can also apply for SBI Home Loans through online financial marketplaces like Paisabazaar.com.

Through SBI YONO app - Applying for the SBI Home Loan through YONO App
Go to the SBI YONO app and click on the Hamburger icon.
Visit the loans menu and click on home loan
Check your eligible home loan amount by entering your date of birth, source of income, net monthly income and details of any other loan availed and proceed
Fill in the required details and click on submit
You will receive a call from an SBI executive
Through the SBI official website - Steps to Apply through the Website
Visit the official website of SBI Home Loan
Click on Apply online
Fill in the required details and get the eligible loan amount
Click on “Apply Now”
SBI Home Loan Customer Care/Grievance Redressal
Toll-free number - 1800112018

Click on SBI Home Loan Customer Care/Grievance Matrix to know more about the customer care and grievance redressal process of SBI Home Loan.

SBI Home Loan Application Status
Applicants can check their SBI Home Loan application status through the official website of the State Bank of India. They can also check their home loan application status through its online SBI YONO app or SBI internet banking by logging into the account. They can also visit the SBI branches to know the status of their home loan application.

Process of checking home loan status through the official website of SBI:

Click on “Application Tracker”
Enter the reference number and mobile number
Click on “Track”

SBI HOME LOAN: MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The MITC covers the following Loan Products:
1 General Home Loan-for Purchase/construction/Take over
2 Home Loan Take Over-Balance Transfer
3 SBI Realty-For Plot Purchase
4 COMBO Loan-Plot purchase+Construction
5 SBI Maxgain- Overdraft facility
6 NRI Home Loans
7 SBI Privilege: Home Loan for employees of State & Central Govt/PSBs/PSUs
8 Shaurya Home Loan- For Defence/Navy/Airforce personnel
9 SBI Flexipay Home Loan-higher eligibility with step up moratorium
10 Shaurya Flexi Home Loan- For Defence/Navy/Airforce personnel
11 Ashraya Home Loan: For individuals with regular source of income but without
formal income proof
12 Home Loan to Non-Salaried (Differential Offerings)
13 Apon Ghar (Assam)-for Employees of Assam State Govt
14 HL for Employees of Kerala Govt
15 SBI Tribal Plus
Purpose for which home loan can be availed: The loan will be sanctioned for the
purpose of Purchase/ Construction/ Extension/ Repairs/ Renovation of new/ used
Residential house/ Flat/ Plot of land and furnishings and interiors (hereinafter referred
to as the ‘project’).
Loan to Value Ratio (LTV):
Home Loan Amount
LTV Ratio
Up-to Rs. 30 lacs
Above Rs. 30 lacs and
upto Rs. 75 lacs
90%
80%
Above Rs. 75 lacs
75%

Rate of Interest:

Floating Rate of Interest: -

Interest on the loan will be charged at a fixed spread with EBLR linked RBI REPO rate
on a daily reducing balance basis at monthly rests. Interest rate will be reset with the
change in benchmark rate (REPO) from time to time, on the date as decided by the
Bank. The Bank has the option to reduce or increase the EMI or extend the repayment
period or both consequent upon revision in interest rate.
Intimation of change in EBLR Interest Rate:-

Borrower shall be deemed to have notice of change in the rate of interest when the
changes in REPO rate are notified at/displayed at the branch notice board or published
in a newspaper or in the website of the Bank/ RBI or made through the statement of
account.

In addition to that a communication will be sent to borrower at their registered e-mail
address and through SMS at their registered mobile number, as available with the
Bank.

Penal Charges:-

• Irregularity upto 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for
the period of irregularity.

• Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 Days: 5% per annum on the
irregular portion for the period of irregularity.

Besides the Bank shall also charge a penalty, the rate of which shall be at the
discretion of the Bank from time to time, for every bounced cheque/NACH/SI for
any reason whatsoever in addition to the Penal charge as applicable (present rate - ₹ 250/- + GST for every bounced cheque/NACH/SI).
In case valid mortgage is not created by the borrower (s) in favour of the Bank for
any reasons within 60 days of execution of Sale Deed, or the issue of possession
letter by builder, whichever is earlier, penal charge will be recovered as below:
 For the first 15 days of delay beyond due date: Rs 5000/-.
 Delay > 15 days: 0.50% p.a. Minimum Rs 5000/-

(Penalty to be levied from the next day of the expiry of the stipulated/ extended
time period approved for perfection of security till the security is perfected. To be
calculated on the Sanctioned Limit for the period of default/ delay)

Non-renewal of insurance policy of property:

For the first 15 days of delay beyond due date: Rs 5000/-
 Delay > 15 days: 0.50% p.a. Minimum Rs 5000/-
 (To be calculated on the Sanctioned Limit for the period of default/ delay)

Repayment:
The loan is to be repaid in Equated Monthly Installments over the tenure of the loan.
The repayment installment commences from a date specified in the sanction letter.
The liability to the bank will be extinguished only when the outstanding in the loan
account becomes Nil, on payment of residual amount, if any.
Dynamic SI/NACH mandates with maximum debit amount i.e. 120 % of actual EMI has
to be tendered to address the issue of upward revision in rate of interest. However,
the lodgement for monthly recovery will be done for actual EMI amount at the material
time.
Loan Tenor:
Maximum 30 years (or) up to the age of 70 years (the age by which the loan should
be fully repaid) of the borrower, whichever is early. For privilege and Shaurya Home
Loan repayment up to 75 years of age is allowed.
Pre-closure Charges:-
No pre-payment/ Pre-closure penalty will be levied on floating interest Home Loans
irrespective of the period for which the account has run or source of funds.
Security:
Primary:-
The loan will be secured by Equitable / Registered mortgage/extension of mortgage of
the land and building/flat for which the loan is to be sanctioned.
Collateral:-
Liquid securities of adequate value in the form of Life Insurance policies, Government
Promissory Notes, shares/ debentures, gold ornaments or such other tangible security
as may be deemed appropriate, may be pledged by the customer in lieu of mortgage
of the residential property financed by the Bank.
Interim Security Pending Mortgage:-
Wherever creation of mortgage is likely to be delayed for any valid reason, suitable
security including third party guarantee, as considered necessary, may be taken for
the interim period.
Utilisation of the loan:
The amount of the loan shall be utilized strictly for the purpose detailed in the
Arrangement Letter and in the manner prescribed. The construction of the house/flat
or the modification/extension proposed by the borrower in the existing house/flat
should be strictly according to the plan approved by the Local Authorities/Town
Planning and Development authorities. Any modification desired in the plan as
originally approved, can be undertaken only after express sanction for it has been
obtained from the appropriate authority.
Insurance:
The house/flat purchased/constructed with Bank’s finance should be insured against
the risk of fire/riots/earthquakes/lightning/ floods etc. in the joint names of the borrower
and the Bank for the actual project cost after netting off the cost of land (including
undivided share of land in case of flats), cost of stamp duty and registration charges.
Cost of the same shall be borne by the borrower.
Inspection: The Bank will have the right to inspect, at all reasonable times, the
borrower’s property by an officer of the Bank or a qualified auditor or a technical expert
as decided by the Bank and the cost thereof shall be borne by the customer.
Fees and charges:
Processing fee:
For Salaried Customer:
0.35% of the loan amount, minimum Rs.5,000/- and maximum of Rs. 15,000/- plus
GST
For Non-Salaried Customers:
0.35% of the loan amount, minimum Rs.5,000/- and maximum of Rs. 18,000/- plus
GST
Other Fee/Charges / Expenses:
Reason
Particulars
Fee amount
Collected for payment to
empanelled advocate/Valuer
Legal Opinion & Search
Report
Collected for Payment to
State Govt
Valuation Fee
Actual expenses with
applicable GST will be
charged
Stamp Duty (% of project
cost)
Registration Charges (% of
project cost)
Fees paid to Bank’s empanelled advocate and valuer for their professional services
will not be refunded even if the loan is not sanctioned for any reason. State Bank of
India retains the right to alter any charges or fees from time to time or to introduce any
new charges or fees, as it may deem appropriate, with due intimation to customer.
CERSAI Registration Charges:
Loan up to Rs. 5 lacs: Rs. 50+GST/-
Loan above Rs. 5 lacs : Rs. 100+GST/-
Processing Fee for Revalidation of Loans:
Rs. 5000/+ GST
Fee for switch over to current card rate (EBLR to EBLR) :
Rs. 5000/+ GST
Safe Custody Charges, In case the original title deeds are not collected within
the prescribed time limit (e.g. 60 days from closure of Loan Account)
₹ 1000+GST per quarter or part thereof
Conversion charges for switching loan from MCLR /BASE RATE / SBAR
regime to EBLR regime:
Option for switching over loan from MCLR /BASE RATE / SBAR to EBR is permissible
on payment of Switch-over Fee of Rs. 5,000/- per account+GST.
Failed or Non-payment EMI / Cheque returned/SI dishonours: -
Reason
Penalty
Failed / Non Payment of EMI
Rs.250 + GST per EMI missed.
Rs.500 + GST
Cheque returned (for insufficient
funds only)
Failed SI /NACH
Rs.250 + GST per failed SI /NACH
The above-mentioned rates may vary from time to time.
• Borrowers can collect the original title deeds within 30 days of full and final
payment of Bank’s dues (Loan) from the linked Home Loan Centre /
RASMECC. In case the original title deeds are not collected within the
prescribed time limit, applicable Safe Custody Charges would be levied.
Fees and Charges are subject to change from time to time at the sole discretion
of SBI.
Disbursement:
The loan will be disbursed only on the following conditions:
1. All the security documents prescribed have been executed by borrower/co
applicant (s)/ guarantor/s.
2. A valid mortgage (equitable or registered if equitable mortgage is not possible)
/ agreement to mortgage has been created in favour of the Bank as per the
laws of the State.
3. Wherever creation of mortgage is likely to be delayed for any valid reason,
suitable security including third party guarantee, has been taken for the interim
period.
4. The loan will be disbursed in stages where a loan for construction is desired,
or purchase is through payment to seller in instalments.
5. All necessary statutory compliances are in place.
SBI may disburse the quantum of loan in lump sum or in instalments at its own
discretion depending on the level of construction of the House/Flat as acceptable to
SBI.
SBI will disburse loan amount directly to the builder/seller/society as the case may be
and as requested / specified/ directed by the customer to SBI at the time of each
disbursement. SBI shall not be responsible / liable in any manner whatsoever for any
delay by the customer in providing such request/ specification/ direction to SBI and the
customer shall not claim any costs, charges and expenses in any relation to any non
disbursal by SBI due to any such delay by the customer.
The Bank reserves the right to collect any tax if levied by the State/Central Government
and/or other Authorities in respect of this transaction.
Default:
In the event of default i.e. if the amount due is not paid by due date, the customer will
be sent reminders from time to time for payment of any outstanding in his loan account,
by post, fax, telephone, email, SMS messaging and/or through third parties appointed
for collection purpose to remind, follow-up and collect dues. Any third party so
appointed, shall adhere to the Indian Banks Association’s (IBA) code of conduct on
debt collection.
ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITION FOR COMBO HOME LOAN
Penal charges for
Non creation of EM
@2% p.a, applied on entire outstanding on a monthly basis
for completed months, if mortgage is not created within 1
month of execution of sale deed in case of outright purchase.
@2% p.a, applied on entire outstanding on a monthly basis
for completed months, if mortgage is not created within 6
month of final disbursement in case of construction.
Penal charges for
Non submission of
approved plan
@2% p.a, applied on entire outstanding on a monthly basis
for completed months, if approved plan is not submitted within
6/9 months of outright purchase
@2% p.a, applied on entire outstanding on a monthly basis
for completed months, if approved plan is not submitted Within
6 months in case of deferred purchase.
Penal charges for
Non completion of
construction
@2% p.a, applied on entire outstanding on a monthly basis
for completed months in the event of non-completion of
construction within 24 months from the date of approved plan.
Customer Service:
For any service-related issue, customer can get in touch with SBI by:
• Calling Customer Help Line Numbers
• Contact Customer Grievance Cell at our Local Head Offices
• Write to Grievance Cell at our Local Head Offices
(Details on Help line Numbers and Grievance Cell available on www.sbi.co.in)
In case a customer is not satisfied with the handling of grievance by the Local Head
Office, a communication may be sent (enclosing the message sent earlier to Local
Head Office) to the
Deputy General Manager (Customer Service),
Customer Service Dept, State Bank of India;
State Bank Bhawan, 4th floor;
Madame Cama Road,
Mumbai-400 021,
Telephone No. (022) 22029456, 22029451 22740432, 22740431,
22740433 Fax no. (022) 22742431.
E-mail address - dgm.customer@sbi.co.in.
Disclosure:
State Bank of India is authorized to disclose from time to time any information relating
to the loan to any credit bureau (Existing or Future) approved by Government of India
and Reserve Bank of India without any notice to the borrower. State Bank of India is
also authorized to make inquiries with the Credit Information Bureau of India (CIBIL)
and get the applicants Credit Information Report.

**Q: What is the current SBI Home Loan interest rate?**
A: SBI home loan interest rates start from 7.25% p.a. based on the credit profile of its home loan applicants.

**Q: What are the eligibility criteria for an SBI Home Loan?**
A: The applicant’s home loan eligibility depends upon age, credit score, job profile, employer profile, monthly income, repayment capacity, etc.

**Q: How is SBI Home Loan interest cost calculated?**
A: SBI uses a monthly reducing balance method to calculate home loan interest. Interest is calculated on the outstanding principal amount after each EMI payment. The interest component is highest during the initial years of the loan tenure.

**Q: What is the turnaround time for the disbursement of the SBI Home Loan?**
A: SBI claims to take 3–10 working days on average to disburse home loans after completion of documentation and other required procedures.

**Q: Is property insurance mandatory for SBI Home Loans?**
A: One response states that property insurance is not mandatory, though SBI General offers property insurance for residences. Another response states that property insurance is mandatory and must cover risks such as fire, earthquakes, lightning, riots, and floods, with the insurance held jointly by the borrower and the bank. (These responses are contradictory.)

**Q: Can I close my SBI Home Loan early?**
A: Yes. SBI allows foreclosure of home loans. Since SBI home loans are offered at floating interest rates, no foreclosure fee is charged.

**Q: Are there any concessions offered to women borrowers on the SBI Home Loan interest rate?**
A: SBI currently does not offer any concessions on home loan interest rates for women borrowers.

**Q: How can I reduce my SBI Home Loan interest rate?**
A: You can request a conversion to a lower interest rate by paying a conversion fee. If SBI does not reduce the rate, you may consider a balance transfer to another lender offering lower rates.

**Q: How can fresh home loan customers avail SBI Housing Loan at lower interest rates?**
A: Interest rates depend on the home loan scheme chosen. Borrowers may compare rates offered by different lenders and choose the most competitive option.

**Q: Can I choose between a fixed and floating interest rate?**
A: SBI offers home loans only at floating interest rates.

**Q: What is the minimum credit score required to avail home loans from SBI?**
A: SBI has not specified a minimum credit score. However, lenders generally prefer applicants with a credit score of 750 or above.

**Q: When does the interest rate of an SBI Home Loan change?**
A: Changes are linked to repo rate movements and are applied according to the borrower’s interest rate reset date.

**Q: Why does the SBI Home Loan interest rate increase or decrease?**
A: Interest rates change in line with repo rate movements, subject to the applicable reset date.

**Q: How do lenders check EMI affordability?**
A: Lenders assess repayment capacity and generally prefer total EMIs, including the proposed home loan EMI, to remain within 50–60% of monthly income.

**Q: How can I check the total interest cost payable online?**
A: You can use an online home loan EMI calculator by entering the loan amount, interest rate, and tenure to calculate EMI and total interest cost.

**Q: Can I get an in-principal approval and avail the loan later?**
A: Yes. SBI offers in-principal approval based on repayment capacity and income, helping borrowers estimate available funding before purchasing a property.

**Q: Is pre-payment penalty funded in SBI balance transfer loans?**
A: Yes. Prepayment penalty funding is available under SBI Housing Loan Balance Transfer, subject to eligibility criteria.

**Q: Can I apply jointly with my spouse? Will both salaries be considered?**
A: Yes. If your spouse is a co-applicant, their salary may be considered for loan eligibility calculations. If the spouse is a co-owner of the property, they must also be a co-applicant.

**Q: What should be the minimum CIBIL Score for availing SBI Home Loan?**
A: SBI has not specified a minimum CIBIL score, though lenders usually prefer applicants with a score of 700 or above.

**Q: What is the age limit for availing SBI Home Loan?**
A: Applicants must be at least 18 years old and generally not older than 70 years.

**Q: What is the maximum tenure for SBI Home Loan?**
A: Up to 30 years.

**Q: What are the basic eligibility criteria for SBI Home Loan?**
A: SBI offers home loans to resident and non-resident Indians aged 18 years and above. Maximum age limits vary by scheme. Eligibility also depends on employment profile, income, repayment capacity, property details, and, for self-employed applicants, business-related factors.

**Q: How can I download my SBI Home Loan statement?**
A: You can download it through SBI’s website or the SBI YONO app.

**Q: Does SBI reduce home loan interest rates for existing customers?**
A: Floating-rate borrowers may experience rate changes based on benchmark rate movements and reset dates. SBI also allows eligible borrowers to switch to a newer rate structure by paying a one-time switch-over fee.

**Q: How can I get a home loan interest certificate from SBI?**
A: Log in to SBI Personal Banking at retail.onlinesbi.sbi or call the toll-free numbers 1800 1234 or 1800 2100 from your registered mobile number.

**Q: How much home loan can I get on a ₹40,000 salary from SBI?**
A: The eligible loan amount depends on salary, existing liabilities, tenure, age, and other credit profile factors. SBI has not publicly disclosed its exact calculation methodology.

**Q: What is the SBI Home Loan interest rate for pensioners?**
A: SBI has not disclosed special home loan interest rates for pensioners or senior citizens. The final rate depends on factors such as credit score, pension income, and overall credit profile.

===== Home Loan eligibility.txt =====

SBI Home Loan Eligibility Criteria
The following mentions the eligibility criteria for availing a home loan from SBI:

SBI Home Loan Eligibility For Salaried Individuals
The monthly salary of an individual plays an important role in determining the required amount to avail of a home loan.
The State Bank of India's home loan eligibility criteria depend on various factors, including credit score, age, and desired income or salary.
With proper use of the Cleartax SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator, you can find out the loan amount you are eligible for considering your dmonthly income rangely income.
SBI Home Loan Eligibility for Self-Employed
Meeting the SBI home loan eligibility criteria is easier and hassle-free for self-employed. Let's look into the eligibility criteria in detail below:

Nationality: Indian resident
Minimum Age: 18 years
Loan Amount: Minimum- Rs. 50,000 and Maximum – Rs. 50 Crore
Loan Tenure: Maximum of 30 years
Employment: Any one of the following:
One of the directors of a company
Proprietor of a Proprietorship firm
Any one partner in a partnership firm
Status of Company/Firm
Should be the earner of net profit during the last 2 years
Should be in existence for 3 years minimum
Credit facilities should be standard and regular. The existing bankers however should provide an opinion report
If the property is acquired through joint ownership of the Proprietor and Proprietary Firm, the firm should be the borrower and remain free from debts
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based On Age
The age of an applicant is another crucial factor to look into while determining Home Loan eligibility with SBI. The maximum Home Loan repayment tenure of State Bank of India is 30 years. The table below displays the maximum tenure for SBI Home Loan according to different ages:

Age of an Applicant

Maximum Eligible Tenure

21 years to 30 years 30 years
31 years 29 years
32 years 28 years
33 years 27 years
34 years 26 years
35 years 25 years
36 years 24 years
37 years 23 years
38 years 22 years
39 years 21 years
40 years 20 years
41 years 19 years
42 years 18 years
43 years 17 years
44 years 16 years
45 years 15 years
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based on Value of Property
The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is the desired loan amount disbursed considering the value of the property you decide to purchase. Below is the LTV ratio applicable for different loan amounts:

Loan amount up to Rs. 20 Lakh: 90%
Loan amount above Rs. 20 Lakh: 80%
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based On Credit Score
SBI Home Loan eligibility also depends significantly on credit score. Maintaining a higher credit score causes low rates of interest and vice versa. The table below showcases the ratings applicable for different credit scores:

750 and above: Good
600 to 750: Average
Below 600: Poor
Types of SBI Home Loan
Here is a detailed overview of the different types of SBI home loan schemes:

SBI Flexipay Home Loan: Individual investors with a maximum age of 45 years can apply for this loan scheme whereas, the maximum age of loan repayment is 70 years
SBI Shaurya Home Loan: Employees employed in the defence sector can avail this loan. SBI offers them long repayment tenure with low rates of interest in comparison with general customers
SBI Privilege Home Loan: Employees involved in the State and Central Government can opt for this loan scheme. The individuals in public sector banks and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) are also considered.
SBI Smart Home Top-Up Loan: Maintaining a CIBIL score of 550 and above is mandatory for this scheme. Alongside this, investors opting for a Home Top-Up Loan should have no other active loans with a repayment history of more than one year.
SBI Tribal Plus: The minimum age for investors should be 21 years whereas the maximum age is 60 years. Individual investors under this scheme can opt for a maximum loan tenure of 15 years.
Factors Affecting SBI Home Loan Eligibility
There are several factors to consider affecting the SBI Home Loan eligibility. Let’s consider these factors in detail below:

Age: While approving a Home Loan, SBI makes sure to consider the age of the borrower. At times, it becomes challenging for SBI to approve loans for older applicants for a long period. However, younger people qualify the eligibility for long loan tenure.
Documentation: As evidence of your loan application, make sure to submit tax returns, bank statements, and references of employers, considering your job situations
Income: For easy loan approval of loan application, having a regular and steady source of income is mandatory. SBI prefers offering quick and easy loan applications to applicants maintaining a steady source of income to lower risk
Rate of Interest: SBI Home Loan eligibility depends on the rate of interest offered on your loan. With low rates, your eligibility might increase whereas, with high rates, the eligibility can decrease.
Existing Loans: Lenders consider your current debt while determining your eligibility for Home Loan. For smooth loan approval, make sure to maintain your debt-to-income ratio within 50% and 60%
Credit Score: SBI assesses your repayment behavior and looks into your credit history. With a negative credit report, individual investors face difficulty in getting a Home Loan approved
How To Improve Your Home Loan Eligibility?
There are several factors to consider for improving your Home Loan eligibility. Those factors include:

Credit Score: Maintaining a high credit score allows for faster and easier loan approval.
Debt-to-income Ratio: The debt-to-income ratio determines how much percentage of your monthly income is allocated towards repayment of debts. The lower will be your debt to income ratio, the higher will be your Home Loan approval chances from SBI
Down Payment: Making a high down payment during loan application results in lowering the loan amount and your monthly mortgage payment also becomes more manageable
Co-signing Options: Maintaining a good credit score or debt-to-income ratio will raise your chances of loan approval and securing a co-signer will also be easier. If you fail to meet obligations, the co-signer takes the responsibility of repaying loans.
To conclude, opting for a Home Loan has become easier in recent days, but not everyone is eligible for the same. Thus, before opting for an SBI Home Loan, make sure to consider the SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator to determine the loan amount. This calculator is an easy online tool that lets you determine the loan amount once you provide the necessary information such as your age, status of employment, credit score, and citizenship. SBI, similar to other banks, provides strict Home Loan eligibility criteria to make sure to allocate funds to the right individual.

Frequently Asked Questions
What is Home Loan Eligibility Calculator SBI for NRI?

The Home Loan Eligibility Calculator SBI for NRI allows NRI to get an idea of the loan amount they can opt for purchasing a house in their home country even while living overseas. This loan scheme is designed specifically for NRIs with competitive rates of interest, long tenure, and a hassle-free documentation process.

What is the SBI Home Loan EMI calculator for government employees?

The SBI Home Loan EMI calculator designed for government employees helps in determining the loan amount conveniently by considering factors such as the income of the applicant, age, assets and liabilities, repayment capacity, and cost of house/flat.

How much Home Loan can I get on an 80,000 salary in SBI?

The Home Loan amount you can avail with an 80, 0000 salary depends on repayment obligations of your current loan as well as the monthly income. However, SBI considers the total EMI of an applicant to not exceed about 50% to 55% of monthly income. Another convenient way to find out the Home Loan amount is proper use of the SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator.

How can I check my SBI loan eligibility?

Individual investors can check out their SBI Home Loan eligibility either by visiting the respective website of SBI or its official branch.

What is the role of a co-applicant in Home Loan eligibility?

For easy approval of a Home Loan, avail the loan with a co-applicant. The main role of the co-applicant remains in repaying the Home Loan along with you (if you are the main borrower).

What are the eligibility criteria for Home Loan subsidy?

Under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation, the Central Government has introduced the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. Under this scheme, beneficiaries can avail subsidies on Home Loan. Following the terms and conditions of the PMAY scheme, the four main broad categories of applicants are LIG, EWS, MIG 1, and MIG 2. These groups’ eligibility criteria under this scheme are decided considering the annual income of the family.

What are the eligibility criteria for SBI balance transfer and top-up loans?

To meet the eligibility criteria for SBI balance transfer and top-up loans, individuals should maintain a repayment history of at least one year. However, in the case of a top-up Home Loan, the applicant must reach a minimum age of 18 years and a maximum of 70 years during the time of loan maturity.

What is the maximum SBI Home Loan amount I am eligible for?

The maximum SBI Home Loan amount you can be eligible for depends on your monthly income and repayment capacity. SBI approves Home Loans of up to 90% of the property value. For easy analysis of the SBI Home Loan amount, you can take the help of SBI Home Loan calculator.

===== Tax benefits on a Home Loan.txt =====

Tax benefits you will get on a Home Loan

As a preliminary step, you first need to know the main components of a Home Loan. Let’s find out what they are and how they can benefit you. For starters, a Home Loan consists of two main characters:
Principle amount
Interest amount payable
So, there are two acts under which you can avail the income tax benefits on a Home Loan that apply differently for these two components. The benefits lie under these two acts of the Income Tax Act 1961 of section 80C and 24(b). Below are the 4 perks mentioned: 1. What are the Tax deductions for a Home Loan under section 80C? With the help of section 80C, you can claim benefits on:
The principal amount and
The registration and stamp duty
Principle Amount: The maximum amount of 1.5 lakhs can be deducted from the total principal amount. Only after the construction of the property is completed the benefit is available for you. The downside is if you sell the property within 5 years of possession, the deduction you received on the principal amount will be added back to your income account the same year you sold the property. In simple words, the tax benefit will be rebuked. Registration and Stamp Duty: This benefit is similar to what benefits you receive on the principal amount. Besides the principal amount, the expenses incurred can be claimed during the purchase of the property, although here, these expenses are not tied to the presence or absence of a home loan and have to be covered within the 1.5 lakh limit. In other words, this particular tax benefit does not depend on whether you have a home loan or not. The reason behind allowing this is to reduce the financial burden on people buying a home. Let’s discuss the second most important component of a Home Loan. 2. Tax deduction on interest paid: Under section 24B – With the help of section 24B, you can claim benefits on:
Pre-construction
Post-construction
Pre-construction: You can get a deduction of up to 2 lakhs on the interest amount, whether it is self-occupied or given out for rent. This benefit is provided only on properties that have completed the construction within the 5-year time period. In case the construction span extends the time frame, you can claim Rs. 30,000 per year only for interests related to buying, reconstructing, renovating, and repairing. On the flip side, if you are renting the property you bought with the loan, you don’t need a time limit to finish the construction. The full interest you pay on the loan can be deducted. Post-construction: After the construction is completed, you may continue to pay the interest on the home loan. You can claim a deduction on post-construction as well. It should be subject to the annual limit of 2 lakhs. 3. How much Tax Benefit for a Home Loan can you get for a Joint Home Loan? Let us tell you how much tax benefit on a home loan you can get by putting it this way. How about a scenario to go around? Have you ever discussed life with your best bud during your schooling days? Every time you hung out together, you’d talk about how you guys would love to live like roomies and adopt a pet, setting up dates on who would cook food and who would wash the dishes. Well, now that you’re older and everything's forgotten, why not bring back the memories, but now only with legit planning? We’re talking about joint home loan. The fun part is you can both get to enjoy tax benefits. Confused? By taking a joint home loan, both the individuals can claim a deduction for an interest of up to 2 lakhs each. Plus, a 1.5 lakhs repayment on the principal amount each. But wait, don’t stop reading! Since you both are co-owners and co-borrowers of the property, you can easily split the deduction that makes the most financial sense for your situation. By splitting the interest deduction, you effectively double the tax benefits. Instead of one person claiming the entire deduction, you can enjoy a share of the deduction based on your ownership percentages. 4. What are the Tax Benefits for a first-time buyer? For a first-time buyer, you can receive additional tax benefits on home loan interest under section 80EE and section 80EEA of the Income Tax Act 1961. Under Section 80EE: If you fall under the criteria of a first-time home buyer, you can claim the following tax benefits.
A rookie buyer is given the benefit of the doubt by getting offered an additional deduction on the interest rate of Rs. 50,000. This deduction can be claimed during the financial year.
In addition to the deduction that is available under section 24.
However, the property's value cannot increase more than 50 lakhs, and the loan must not exceed 35 lakhs.
On the date of sanction, you should not own any other house.
This deduction only applies if the loan is sanctioned between the financial year.
Under Section 80EEA: With this, you can claim the benefit in order to make housing more affordable.
To claim this perk, you should be a first-time homebuyer, and then you can claim an additional deduction of 1.5 lakhs on the interest.
This is besides the deduction available under Section 24 and Section 80EE.
In this, the property's value should not exceed 45 lakhs, and the loan taken should not exceed 25 lakhs.
Conclusion: Right then, let’s wrap this journey up before you get any more bored with all the “Tax Talks”. Before you go, remember this: your best pal and your allies are your tax benefits in this adventure. Bear in mind that you’re not just buying a home you’re building your financial future. This golden ticket to financial perks isn’t just words written in a blog; they are the key to unlocking a brighter, more financially secured future. We hope this article helps you with the best information possible. Happy house hunting!
