Seva Sindhu Home Page Note: Supported browser versions are Internet explorer 9+, Mozilla 50+ and Chrome 52+ Click here to become Grama one franchise | For Door Delivery of Citizen Services click here | Guarantee scheme call centre number 1902 English version ಕನ್ನಡ ಆವೃತ್ತಿ Government of Karnataka Toggle navigation Home About Seva Sindhu Departments & Services Service Centers Grama One Grama One Portal Apply for Grama one Franchise Janasevaka ( For Door Step Delivery ) FAQ Department Contact Details Dashboard Citizens Login Contact us Latest updates Application for D-link "Gruha Jyothi" scheme made live Application For Grama One Franchise Are Accepted From - 01st August Till 15th August 2026 Total Number of Application Received - Gruha Lakshmi Total Number of Application Received - Gruha Jyoti Total Number of Application Received - Yuvanidhi Seva Sindhu Services link Student bus pass Student bus pass (KKRTC) Student bus pass (KSRTC) Student bus pass (NWKRTC) Application for Refund of KSRTC,NWKRTC,KKRTC & BMTC Student Bus Pass Fee Raise Your Complaint Track your application status New users register here Category wise Services SAKALA iPGRS RTI Online SUVIDHA Number of Application received today Number of Transactions What's New Apply for Sindhutva Pramana Patra (ONLY FOR APPLICANTS WHO HAVE RECEIVED SMS) Application for Family ID/New NPHH (APL) Ration Card Procedure to fix” Invalid Transaction for e-sign process” in Firefox browser Promotional Campaigns Click here for GramOne Franchises E-sign process Close × Application Status Application Ref No: Application Status: Department Name: Submitted On: × Change of Khata (Undisputed cases) More details Eligibility: None Supporting Document: It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page It is a long established fact that a reader Service Charge (Free for Online Service) : Rs.100 Delivery Time : 20 Days Procedure for applying: It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page Apply Online × Frequently Asked Questions What is Seva Sindhu ? Seva Sindhu is the common citizen service portal/facility of Government of Karnataka to provide government related services and other information in one place. Seva Sindhu is implemented under the e-District Mission Mode Project (MMP) of Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY), Ministry of Communications & IT, Government of India. How to access Seva Sindhu ? Seva Sindhu can be accessed online by public using Internet from anywhere Or through identified service delivery centers at District/Taluk/Sub-division/Village level. How does it help the Citizens? Seva Sindhu helps Citizens to avail all the Government Services of any department in one place thereby saving a lot of time and money. It also provides other useful information like local events, employment opportunities etc. What services are delivered in Seva Sindhu ? The broad list of services to be delivered through Seva Sindhu are: Certificates: Creation and distribution of certificates for income, domicile, caste, Birth, Death etc. Licences: Arms Licenses etc. Public Distribution System (PDS): Issue of Ration Card, etc. Social Welfare Schemes: Disbursement of old-age pensions, family pensions, widow pensions, etc. Complaints: Related to unfair prices, absentee teachers, non-availability of doctor, etc. RTI: Online filing and receipt of information relating to the Right to Information Act Linking with other e government projects: Registration, Land Records, and Driving Licences, etc. Information Dissemination: About government schemes, entitlements, etc. Assessment of taxes: Property tax, and other government taxes. Utility Payment: Payments relating to electricity, water bills property taxes etc. Local News : About events, employment opportunities etc. What is the methodology followed in Seva Sindhu to deliver services? Citizens can register on the Seva Sindhu portal and apply for services Or they can go to the nearest identified service delivery center and ask for the service through the service center login. Unique acknowledgement/token number is generated for each requested service which will serve as reference for future follow up action. What to do when I get "Invalid transaction for e-sign Process. Please try again"? Please view the document and follow the instructions How to track applications? After submitting the application you will get an Application Reference Number which you can enter on the homepage to check the status of your application. SMS will be sent to you at each step of the application after submitting. How do I know which form to fill for which service/scheme? You will see the list of all services available online. Clicking on the service name will open the application form which you need to fill and submit. I do not remember my password , what should I do? You can click on Forgot Password option on login screen to reset your password. Alternatively, you can use the OTP option to login. Will I receive any SMS, Email on completing the application? After each step, an SMS and an e-mail notifying you of the status and next steps that require any appointment or verification will be sent on registered phone number and email ID. Can I save my application and submit again after that? Yes you can save an application. You can retrieve this application from View Incomplete Applications option and proceed from there. How to apply offline ? Are there any centers at District/Taluk/Village level? All the schemes/service will be available at District, Taluk and Village level at Bangalore One/Karnataka One/Grama One centers. These schemes/service will also be available at CSCs. Can i pay online through the portal itself? Yes, you can pay online through debit card/credit card/net banking/ Paytm. Is there any online support available? You can reach out to our helpdesk at 8088304855 / 6361799796 / 9380204364 / 9380206704 from 9AM to 6PM on all government working days. We will soon launch the online help section as well on the website. × Steps for user Registration Steps for user Registration On clicking New User Registration you will be redirected to Digilocker page Enter 16 digit Aadhaar number in Digilocker page Click on next button (OTP will be sent to the mobile number which is linked to Aadhaar number) Enter 6 digits OTP Click on continue button Click on allow button to get Redirect to Seva Sindhu page Enter email Id (Optional) Enter your mobile number Set your password Enter captcha Click on submit button Click OK on verification popup Enter OTP which is shared on your mobile number Click on validate button to validate OTP Registration successful message will be displayed You will be able to login to Seva Sindhu using mobile number or email in future What is Digilocker? DigiLocker is a flagship initiative of Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY) under Digital India Corporation (DIC). Digilocker aims at ‘Digital Empowerment’ of citizen by providing access to authentic digital documents to citizen’s digital document wallet. The issued documents in DigiLocker system are deemed to be at par with original physical documents as per Rule 9A of the Information Technology (Preservation and Retention of Information by Intermediaries providing Digital Locker facilities) Rules, 2016 notified on February 8, 2017 vide G.S.R. 711(E). Why we need Digilocker account? Important Documents Anytime, Anywhere! Authentic Documents, Legally at Par with Originals. Digital Document Exchange with the consent of the citizen. Faster service Delivery- Government Benefits, Employment, Financial Inclusion, Education, Health. New users register here × Website Policy WEBSITE POLICIES We do We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on this site to any third party (public/private). Any information provided to this website will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol (IP) address, and date/time visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. COOKIES POLICY A cookie is a piece of software code that an internet web site sends to your browser when you access information at that site. A cookie is stored as a simple text file on your computer or mobile device by a website’s server and only that server will be able to retrieve or read the contents of that cookie. Cookies let you navigate between pages efficiently as they store your preferences, and generally improve your experience of a website. HYPERLINKING POLICY Links to external websites/portals At many places in this website, you shall find links to other websites/portals. These links have been placed for your convenience. The department is not responsible for the contents of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. Mere presence of the link or its listing on this website should not be assumed as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over availability of linked destinations. We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this web site and no prior permission is required for the same. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to this website must load into a newly opened browser window of the User. TERMS & CONDITIONS This website is owned , maintained and hosted by Department of e-Governance , Government of Karnataka at State Data Centre. The website is designed and developed by National Informatics Centre, Bangalore. The contents are provided by various departments of Karnataka . Though all efforts have been made by the Government of Karnataka to ensure the accuracy and currency of the content on this website, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. In case of any ambiguity or doubts, users are advised to verify/check with the respective departments and/or other source(s), and to obtain appropriate professional advice. Under no circumstances will the Department s of Karnataka be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Indian Laws. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of India. REGIONAL LANGUAGE POLICY Though all efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of the content in regional languages on this Portal, the same should not be construed as a statement of law or used for any legal purposes. For any discrepancy in the regional language content you may refer to the original English content. For any error in language, you may report the same through the online feedback form. The department accepts no responsibility in relation to the accuracy, completeness, usefulness or otherwise, of the contents. In no event will the Government or NIC be liable for any expense, loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any expense, loss or damage whatsoever arising from use, or loss of use, of data, arising out of or in connection with the use of this Portal. CANCELLATION / REFUND POLICY The fees once paid will not be refunded for applications which are successfully submitted. Cancellation of applications shall not be entertained. In case of a failed transaction, user shall have no right to claim the amount, the loss on this account shall not be borne either by Government or by the Banks / Payment Gateways. However automatic refund will be made for transactions which are not successful. PRIVACY POLICY: This portal aims to provide various Government to Citizen services of multiple departments in a single portal. In the backend, the portal connects to the respective department application for submission of the application. The portal enable citizens to avail services of various departments and track their application anytime from anywhere. We would like to assure you that we follow appropriate standards when it comes to protecting your privacy on our website. DISCLAIMER This website of e-Governance Department is being maintained for information purposes only. Even though every effort is taken to provide accurate and up to date information, the citizens and the officers making use of the circulars/information posted on the website are advised to get in touch with the respective Departments whenever there is any doubt regarding the correctness of the information contained therein. In the event of any conflict between the contents of the circulars on the website and the hard copy of the circulars/information issued by departments, the information in the hard copy should be relied upon and the matter shall be brought to the notice of the e-Governance department. × For online department assisted entry, please contact concerned District offices of the Department of Handlooms & Textiles. Department website address: https://karnatakadht.org/ × × Important Websites Web-Directory Raj-Bhavan Chief Minister Legislative Assembly Legislative Council Chief Secretary × e-Service Websites Sakala Seva Sindhu e-Gazette Online RTI e-Spandana Mahiti Kanaja × e-Governance Websites Web Portal Aadhaar e-Office e-Procurement HRMS KRDH KSWAN DPAR KSDC × Statistics Websites e-Pragathi e-Taal DATA Karnataka Gazette CM Dashboard × Government Apps BMTC BHOOMI e-Sevai Karnataka Dishank KSRTC Gram Panchayat Karnataka State Police View All... × Central Govt Websites Parliament Presidents Office Prime Ministers Office Passport Seva Aadhaar Karnataka Bhavan × Technical Websites CDAC NIC STQC × Kannada websites Kannada & Culture Sahitya Parishat kanaja Development Authority EKannada × Commission Karnataka State Human Right Commission Karnataka State Electricity commission Karnataka Knowledge Commission Karnataka State Election Commission Karnataka Legal Authority Karnataka State Child Rights Commission Karnataka Women's Commission Karnataka State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission × Law/Court Supreme Court High Court District Courts Central Administrative Tribunal Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal × Downloads NUDI GO Translate CDAC e-Speak kannada Voice Notes × Raise your complaint using below call center Number 8088304855 / 9380204364 / 9380206704 Important Websites e-Service Websites e-Governance Websites Statistics Websites Open Data Government Apps Central Govt Websites Technical Websites Kannada websites Commission Law/Court Downloads Tourist Websites Cyber Crime Website Government Holidays Govt Contact Manual × 📍 Our office is Relocated! New Office Address DIRECTORATE OF ELECTRONIC DELIVERY OF CITIZEN SERVICES Suvarna Bhavana, BWSSB Building, 3rd Floor, 18th Cross, Malleshwaram, Bangalore-560055 📍 Get Directions Help | Feedback form | Sevasindhu User Manual | Page last updated on: 25-September-2026 11.00AM | Website visitor count is 1 0 7 7 4 4 4 4 Site Map | Website policy