===== SSA.txt =====

3. Opening of account.-(1) The account may be opened by one of the guardian in the name of a girl child, who has not attained the age of ten years as on the date of opening of the account.

(2) Every account holder shall have a single account under this Scheme.

(3) The application in Form-1 for opening an account shall be accompanied by birth certificate of the girl child in whose name the account is to be opened, along with required documents of guardian.

(4) An account under this Scheme may be opened for a maximum of two girl children in one family:

Provided that more than two accounts may be opened in a family if such children are born in the first or in the second order of birth or in both, on submission of an affidavit by the guardian supported with birth certificates of the twins/triplets regarding the birth of such multiple girl children in the first two orders of birth in a family:

Provided further that the above proviso shall not apply to girl child of the second order of birth, if the first order of birth in the family results in two or more surviving girl children.

4.Deposits.-(1) The account may be opened with a minimum initial deposit of two hundred and fifty rupees and in multiples of fifty rupees thereafter and subsequent deposits shall be in multiples of fifty rupees subject to the condition that a minimum of two hundred and fifty rupees shall be made as deposit in a financial year in one account.

(2) The total amount deposited in an account shall not exceed one lakh fifty thousand rupees in a financial year:

Provided that the deposit in excess of one lakh fifty thousand rupees in any financial year, if accepted due to any accounting error, shall not be eligible for any interest and be returned immediately to the depositor.

(3) Deposits may be made in the account till the completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of the account.

(4) An account in which minimum amount as specified in sub-paragraph (1) has not been deposited shall be considered as an account under default:

Provided that an account under default may be regularised any time till completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of account on payment of a penalty of fifty rupees for each year of default along with the minimum annual deposit in respect of the defaulted years.

(5) In case of an account under default, if not regularised within the time specified under sub-paragraph (4), then the whole deposit, including the deposits made prior to the date of default, shall be eligible for interest at the rate applicable to the Scheme till closure of the account.

5. Interest on deposit.-(1) The deposit made in the account between 12th December, 2019 to 31st March, 2020 (both days inclusive) and the balances at the credit of the account shall earn interest at the rate of 8.4 per cent per annum.

(1A) The deposit made in the account on or after the 1st day of April, 2020 and the balances at the credit of the account shall earn interest at the rate of 7.6 per cent. per annum.

Sub paragraph 5(1) amended and sub paragraph 5(1A) inserted vide G.S.R. No. 288 (E) dated 05/05/2020

(2) The interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance in the account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month. The interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year and any amount of interest in fraction of a rupee shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee and for this purpose any amount of fifty paisa or more shall be treated as one rupee and any amount less than fifty paisa shall be ignored.

(3) Interest shall be credited at the end of the financial year irrespective of the change of the account office due to transfer of the account during the financial year.

6. Operation of account.-(1) The account shall be operated by the guardian till the account holder attains the age of eighteen years. The account shall be operated by the account holder herself after attaining age of eighteen years by submitting necessary documents.

7. Premature closure of account.-(1) In the event of death of the account holder, the account shall be closed immediately on application in Form-2, on production of death certificate issued by the competent authority and the balance at the credit of the account and interest due thereon till the date of death shall be paid to the guardian.

(2) Interest for the period between the date of death of the account holder and date of closure of the account shall be paid at the rate applicable on Post Office Savings Account for the balance held in the account.

(3) Where the accounts office is satisfied that in case of extreme compassionate grounds such as medical support in life-threatening diseases of the account holder or death of the guardian that the operation or continuation of the account is causing undue hardship to the account holder, it may, after complete documentation establishing the grounds for such closure, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow premature closure of the account. Outstanding balance in the account with interest due as applicable to the Scheme shall be paid to the account holder or guardian, as the case may be:

Provided that no premature closure of an account under this sub-paragraph shall be made before completion of five years from the date of opening of the account.

8. Withdrawal.-(1) On an application in Form-3, withdrawal of upto a maximum of fifty per cent. of the amount in the account at the end of the financial year preceding the year of application for withdrawal, shall be allowed for the purpose of education of the account holder:

Provided that such withdrawal shall be allowed after the account holder attains the age of eighteen years or has passed tenth standard, whichever is earlier.

(2) The application for withdrawal under sub-paragraph (1) shall be accompanied by documentary proof in the form of a confirmed offer of admission of the account holder in an educational institution or a fee-slip from such institution indicating such financial requirement.

(3) The withdrawal under sub-paragraph (1) may be made in one lump sum or in instalments, not exceeding one per year, for a maximum of five years, subject to the ceiling specified in sub-paragraph (1):

Provided that the amount of withdrawal shall be restricted to the actual requirement on account of fee and other charges required at the time of admission as shown in the offer of admission or the relevant fee-slip issued by the educational institution.

9. Closure on maturity.-(1) The account shall mature on completion of a period of twenty-one years from the date of its opening.

(2) The closure of the account may also be permitted before completion of twenty-one years if the account holder on an application makes a request for such closure for the reason of intended marriage of the account holder on furnishing of a declaration duly signed on non-judicial stamp paper attested by the notary supported with proof of age confirming that the applicant will not be less than eighteen years of age on the date of marriage:

Provided that no such closure shall be allowed before one month from the date of the intended marriage or after three months from the date of marriage.

(3) On an application in Form-4 by the account holder, the balance outstanding along with interest as applicable under paragraph 5 shall be payable to the account holder.

10. Application of General Rules.- Provisions of the General Rules shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the matters for which no provisions have been made in this Scheme.

11. Power to relax.-Where the Central Government is satisfied that the operation of any of the provisions of this Scheme causes undue hardship to the account holder, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the requirement of that provision or provisions in respect of such account holder, in a manner not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act.

Who is eligible for a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account?
Guardians can open an account on behalf of their girl child anytime between when she is born and before she reaches the age of 10.

How many accounts can be created under SSY?
Only one SSY account is permitted for a girl child. The number of accounts guardians can create is restricted to two for each of their girl children. Exceptions are only in case of twins or triplets.

What is the minimum amount required to open an SSY account?
Individuals can open an account with as low as Rs. 250. They also have to invest a minimum of Rs. 250 to keep the account active.

What happens when I do not make any deposits?
An SSY account is rendered inactive if you don’t make any deposits. However, you can revive your account by paying a penalty charge of Rs. 50.

What is the maximum amount that I can deposit in a year?
The maximum amount that you can deposit per year in a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account is Rs. 1.5 Lakh.

What is the maturity period of an SSY account?
The maturity period of an SSY account is 21 years. However, you only have to make deposits for 14 years. The deposited corpus will earn interest between the 14th and 21st year.

Note that an SSY account will be terminated once a girl reaches 21 years of age or gets married, whichever is earlier.

Does a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account provide income tax benefits?
Yes. SSY accounts provide income tax benefit of up to Rs. 1.5 Lakh under Section 80C.

Can an accountholder prematurely withdraw from an SSY account?
Yes. An account holder (the girl) will be able to withdraw from her account once she reaches 18 years of age. The account holder can only withdraw 50% of the accumulated amount once after she reaches this specified age only for the purpose of higher education.

Can an SSY account be closed before maturity?
Yes. A Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account can be closed in the event of the accountholder’s death or for the treatment of life-threatening diseases, the sanction of which needs to be authorised by the Central Government

Interest payable, Rates, Periodicity etc. Minimum Amount for opening of account and maximum balance that can be retained
8.2% per annum Minimum INR. 250/- and Maximum INR. 1,50,000/- in a financial year. Subsequent deposit in multiple of INR 50/-. Deposits can be made in lump-sum. No limit on the number of deposits either in a month or in a Financial year.

Eligibility
Individual to be resident citizen of India
Account may be opened by one of the guardians in the name of girl, who has not attained the age of ten years as on the date of opening of the account
Account may be opened for maximum of two girl children in a family.
Provided that more than two accounts may be opened in a family if such children are born in the first or in the second order of birth or in both, on submission of an affidavit by the guardian supported with birth certificates of the twins/triplets regarding the birth of such multiple girl children in the first two orders of birth in a family
Provided further that the above proviso shall not apply to girl child of the second order of birth, if the first order of birth in the family results in two or more surviving girl children.
The guardian shall operate the account till the account holder attains the age of 18 years. Thereafter, the account holder shall operate it upon submitting the required documents
Every account holder shall have a single account under this Scheme
The account shall be operated by the guardian till the account holder attains the age of eighteen years. The account shall be operated by the account holder herself after attaining age of eighteen years by submitting necessary documents.

Note:Application for account opening should be accompanied by Birth certificate the girl child and required documents of guardian. (Please refer Para 2 (1) (d))

Account may be opened with minimum initial deposit Rs. 250.
Minimum deposit in a financial year is Rs. 250 and maximum deposit may be made up to Rs. 1.5 lakh (in multiple of Rs.50) in a Financial Year in lump-sum or in multiple instalments
Deposits may be made till the completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of the account.
If minimum deposit Rs. 250 is not deposited in an account in a Financial Year (FY), the account shall be treated as defaulted account.
Provided that an account under default may be regularised any time till completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of account on payment of a penalty of fifty rupees for each year of default along with the minimum annual deposit in respect of the defaulted years.
Deposits qualify for deduction under section 80C of Income Tax Act

Note: Deposits in the account may be made by Cash/Cheque at Post Office Counter or through online mode by fund transfer through NEFT/RTGS facility or India Post Payment Bank App

Withdrawal, up to 50% of balance available at the end of the financial year preceding the year of application for withdrawal, may be taken from account for the purpose of education, provided that such withdrawal shall be allowed after the account holder attains the age of eighteen years or has passed tenth standard, whichever is earlier
Withdrawal may be made in one lump sum or in instalments, not exceeding one per year, for a maximum of five years, provided that the amount of withdrawal shall be restricted to the actual requirement on account of fee and other charges required at the time of admission as shown in the offer of admission or the relevant fee-slip issued by the educational institution.

The account will earn on the prescribed rate notified by Ministry of Finance at the end of financial year from time to time.
The interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance in the account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month.
Interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year
Interest earned is tax free under Income Tax Act.

Premature Closure
Please see Para No.7
In the event of death of the account holder, the account shall be closed immediately on application in Form-2, on production of death certificate issued by the competent authority and the balance at the credit of the account and interest due thereon till the date of death shall be paid to the guardian.
Interest for the period between the date of death of the account holder and date of closure of the account shall be paid at the rate applicable on Post Office Savings Account for the balance held in the account.
Account may be prematurely closed only after 5 years of account opening on extreme compassionate grounds namely,
(i) medical support in life-threatening diseases of the account holder
(ii) Death of the guardian by whom account operated or
(iii) Continuation of the account is causing undue hardship to the account holder

The account shall mature on completion of a period of 21 years from the date of its opening
The closure of the account may also be permitted before completion of 21 years if the account holder makes a request for the reason of intended marriage of the account holder on furnishing of a declaration duly signed on non-judicial stamp paper attested by the notary supported with proof of age confirming that the applicant will not be less than 18 years of age on the date of marriage:
Provided that no such closure shall be allowed before one month from the date of the intended marriage or after three months from the date of marriage

SSY vs ELSS - Which is Better for Girl Child Education Planning?
It is important to compare Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana with ELSS for parents considering investment options for higher education fund.

Basis Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) ELSS Mutual Funds
Returns 8.2% p.a. (government-fixed) Market-linked (historically 12%–15%)
Risk Level Very Low Moderate to High
Lock-in Period 21 years 3 years
Tax Benefit Section 80C + tax-free maturity Section 80C deduction available
Tax on Returns Fully tax-free LTCG tax applicable above exemption limit
Liquidity Partial withdrawal after age 18 Redemption allowed after 3 years
Capital Safety Government-backed Subject to market fluctuations
Best For Guaranteed education or marriage corpus Long-term wealth creation
Ideal Investor Conservative parents Parents comfortable with equity risk

1. When SSY Makes More Sense
You want a guaranteed and safe education corpus.
You prefer tax-free maturity benefits.
You do not want market volatility risk.
Your investment goal is specifically for a girl child.
2. When ELSS May Be Better
You have a long investment horizon and higher risk appetite.
You want potentially inflation-beating returns.
You are comfortable with short-term market volatility.
You want flexibility after the 3-year lock-in.
A stable and balanced investment strategy helps in capital safety and wealth creation for future education expenses.

Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Online Payment
You have to download the IPPB app on your smartphone to make online payments towards your SSY account. Through this app, you can set standing instructions so that a specified amount will be transferred online to your SSY account. Here is the step-by-step procedure:

Transfer money from your bank account to the IPPB account.
On the IPPB app, go to DOP Products / Services tab and choose the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account.
Enter your SSY account number and the customer ID.
Choose the amount you would like to pay and the installment duration.
IPPB will notify you of the success of setting up the payment routine.
Each time the app makes the money transfer, you will be notified of the same.

How to Transfer a Sukanya Samriddhi Account from the Post Office to a Bank?
To transfer the SSY account from a post office to a bank, follow these instructions:

Visit the PO branch where the account is held. The girl child need not visit the PO branch as the guardian can complete the process.
Inform the PO executive about your intent to transfer the SSY account.
Submit the duly filled account transfer form and KYC documents. The executive will verify the details and transfer the account on your request.
Now, visit the bank branch where you would like to maintain the SSY account.
Submit the self-attested KYC documents and any other paperwork provided to you by the PO executive while requesting to maintain the account with them.
Once the bank executive processes your request, a new passbook will be provided.
The balance in the SSY can be transferred anywhere in India – from or to post offices, from or to banks, and between post offices and banks free of cost. This can be done upon furnishing proof of a change of residence of either the guardian or the girl child. Under any other circumstance, such a transfer can be made by paying a fee of Rs 100.

s the maturity amount on withdrawal from the SSY account taxable?

No, the interest and maturity amount is exempt under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana.

How to open Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account online?

As of now, you cannot open SSY account via online mode.

Who is the Guardian in Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme?

A Guardian in relation to a Minor means:

Either of the parents.
A Legal Guardian appointed by a court.
What is the maturity amount of SSY for Rs.1.5 lakh per year?

Investing Rs. 1.5 lakh per year in the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana can generate an estimated maturity amount of around Rs. 69 to 70 lakh after 21 years, depending on applicable interest rates.

Can I open SSY account online?

Yes, SSY account can be opened online through post office or authorised banks.

What is the age limit for SSY?

SSY account can be opened for girl child below 10 years of age.

Can I open SSY for adopted daughter?

Yes, SSY account can be opened for adopted daughter by their legal guardian.

What happens to SSY if girl becomes NRI?

If the girl child becomes an NRI, then SSY account must be permanently closed and SSY is discontinued.

Can I open 2 SSY accounts for 2 daughters?

Yes, one family can open a maximum of 2 SSY accounts.

What happens if I miss SSY deposit in a year?

If you miss the minimum yearly deposit in the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, the account becomes inactive and can be revived by paying the minimum amount along with a penalty.

Can I withdraw SSY before maturity?

Yes, partial withdrawal from the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is allowed after the girl turns 18 for higher education or marriage purposes, subject to conditions.

Is SSY maturity amount taxable?

No, the maturity amount of the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is completely tax-free under the EEE (Exempt-Exempt-Exempt) tax benefit category.

SSY vs PPF - which is better for girl child?

Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is generally better for a girl child due to its higher interest rate and dedicated savings benefits, while PPF offers more flexibility and liquidity.

===== FAQ SSA Sukanya Samriddhi Account.txt =====

FAQ SSA
1. What is Sukanya Samriddhi Account (SSA)?
Sukanya Samriddhi Account (SSA) is a Government-backed small deposit savings scheme for the benefit of a girl child.
2. How to open an account in SSA?
An account can be opened by the Guardian by visiting any SBI branch.
3. Who can open a SS Account?
The account may be opened by one of the Guardians in the name of a girl child, who has not attained the age of ten years as on the date of opening of the account. Every account holder shall have a single account under this Scheme.
4. Which document required to open SS Account?
The application Form-1 for opening an account shall be accompanied by birth certificate of the girl child in whose name the account is to be opened, along with required documents (Aadhaar and PAN) relating to identity and residence proof of the Guardian.
5. Which type of birth certificate is required in SS Account?
Birth certificate issued by the municipal authority, or any office authorized to issue birth and death certificate by the Registrar of Births and Deaths, or the Indian Consulate as defined in clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955).
6. Is Aadhaar of girl child required to open SS Account?
Aadhaar of girl child is not required for opening of Sukanya Samriddhi Account.
7. Who is the Guardian in SSA?
Guardian in relation to a Minor means-
Either of the parents.
Where neither parent is alive nor the only living parent is incapable of acting as such, a person entitled under the law for the time being in force to have the care of the property of a Minor or a person of unsound mind, as the case may be.
Legal Guardian appointed by a court.
8. Is Aadhaar of the Guardian is required to open Sukanya Samriddhi Account?
Yes, SS Account can be opened with Aadhaar as primary identity. If Aadhaar number has not been assigned to the Guardian, proof of Aadhaar enrolment number can be provided to open the account. But customer has to submit Aadhaar within six months from account opening date for linking. If Aadhaar has not submitted within six months from account opening date, account shall cease to be operational till the time he submits the Aadhaar.
9. Is PAN / Form-60 of the Guardian required to open Sukanya Samriddhi Account?
Yes, SS Account can be opened with PAN/Form-60. If Guardian has not submitted PAN at the time of account opening, PAN has to be submitted within a period of two months from the date of happening of any of the following events, whichever is earliest,
The balance at any point of time in the account exceeds Rs fifty thousand or
The aggregate of all credits in the account in any financial year exceeds Rs one lakh
The aggregate of all withdrawals and transfers in a month from the account exceed Rs Ten thousand
and in the event of failure of submitting PAN within a specified period of 2 months the account shall cease to be operational till the time customer submits the PAN.
10. What is the meaning of family in SSA?
Family means a unit consisting of a person and his spouse (both or either of whom are alive or deceased) and their children, adopted or otherwise.
11. How many SS Account can be opened in one family?
An account under this Scheme may be opened for a maximum of two girl children in one family.
Additionally, more than two accounts may be opened in a family if such children are born in the first or in the second order of birth or in both, on submission of an affidavit by the Guardian supported with birth certificates of the twins/triplets regarding the birth of such multiple girl children in the first two orders of birth in a family.
However, the above proviso shall not apply to girl child of the second order of birth, if the first order of birth in the family results in two or more surviving girl children.
12. What is rule of nomination in SS Account?
Registration of nomination is mandatory at the time of opening of SS Account. An account opened on behalf of a Minor, the nomination shall be made by the Guardian, who may nominate any individual, including himself in this regard.
13. Can joint SS Account be opened?
Joint account shall not be opened under this scheme.
14. What is the initial deposit to be made as per new SSA Scheme-2019 and in what multiple can further sum of money be deposited in one financial year?
Account shall be opened with a minimum of initial deposit of two hundred and fifty rupees (Rs.250/-).
A deposit which shall not be less than two hundred and fifty rupees and not more than one lakh fifty thousand rupees (1,50,000/-) in multiple of fifty rupees (50/-) may be made in an account in a financial year till the completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of the account.
15. How many installments are there in Sukanya Samriddhi Account?
There is no limit on number of installments to deposit during one financial year.
16. What is the provision if deposited amount exceeds the limit in a financial year?
The deposit in excess of one lakh fifty thousand rupees in any financial year, if accepted due to any accounting error, shall not be eligible for any interest and be returned immediately to the depositor.
17. What will be the fate of a SS Account if the minimum amount of deposit is not deposited in one FY?
An account in which the account holder, having deposited Rs.250/- in the initial year, fails to deposit the minimum amount in the following years, shall be treated as discontinued or default.
18. Can a “discontinued or default” SS A/c be regularized?
An account which is treated as “discontinued or default”, may be regularized before completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of account on payment of a penalty of fifty rupees for each year of default along with the minimum annual deposit in respect of the defaulted years.
19. When is the interest credited to a SS Account?
Interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year on 31st of March irrespective of the change of the account office due to transfer of the account during the financial year.
20. When should an account holder make deposit in a SS Account to earn the maximum interest?
The rate of interest as applicable from time to time shall be eligible for a calendar month on the lowest balance at the credit of an account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month. So ideally, an individual should try to deposit the sum of money before the 5th of every month.
21. What is mode of operation of account?
The account shall be operated by the Guardian till the account holder attains the age of eighteen years.
The account shall be operated by the account holder herself after attaining age of eighteen years by submitting necessary documents.
22. Can a SS Account be closed prematurely? What are the terms and conditions for premature closure?
In the event of death of the account holder, the account will be closed immediately on the production of a death certificate issued by the competent authority.
The balance in the account will be paid, along with the interest till the date of death shall be paid to the Guardian.
Interest for the period between the date of death of the account holder and date of closure of the account shall be paid at the rate applicable on Post Office Savings Account for the balance held in the account.
On medical ground of life-threatening disease of the account holder or death of the Guardian, after complete documentation for such closure, allow premature closure of the account. Outstanding balance in the account with interest due as applicable to the Scheme shall be paid to the account holder or Guardian.
23. Can a SS Account be closed within a year of opening the account and can the balance be withdrawn?
No. SS Account cannot be closed in any circumstances before the completion of 5 years from the date of opening of the account.
24. What is rule of premature withdrawal?
Premature withdrawal subject to the condition that the account holder for the purpose of higher education, withdrawal of up to 50 per cent of the amount in the account at the end of preceding financial year of application for withdrawal is allowed.
Such withdrawal shall be allowed after the account holder attains the age of eighteen years or has passed tenth standard, whichever is earlier.
The amount of withdrawal shall be restricted to the actual requirement on account of fee and other charges required at the time of admission as shown in the offer of admission or the relevant fee-slip issued by the educational institution.
25. When an account close on maturity?
The account shall mature on completion of a period of twenty-one years from the date of its opening.
The closure of the account may also be permitted before completion of twenty-one years if the account holder on an application makes a request for such closure for the reason of intended marriage of the account holder on furnishing of a declaration duly signed on non-judicial stamp paper attested by the notary supported with proof of age confirming that the applicant will not be less than eighteen years of age on the date of marriage.
No such closure shall be allowed before one month from the date of the intended marriage or after three months from the date of marriage.
26. What is rate of interest after maturity of SS Account?
An account which has matured but not closed, the eligible balance in the account shall continue to earn interest at the rate applicable to the Post Office Savings Account, till the closure of the account.
27. What happen after death of Minor?
In the event of the death of the Minor, the eligible balance shall be paid to the nominee, provided that in case of accounts opened before the 1st April, 2018, wherein no nomination was permissible, the eligible balance shall be paid to the Guardian.
28. What happen after death of Guardian?
In the event of death of the Guardian, the succeeding Guardian shall be eligible to operate the account of the Minor.
29. Is there any tax benefits under this scheme?
Yes, income tax rebate up to ₹ 1,50,000 under section 80C.
30. Is loan on SSA granted as per the new SSA scheme 2019?
No loan or investment against SSA can be granted under this scheme.
31. Which institution has power to relax?
Where the Central Government is satisfied that the operation of any of the provisions of this Scheme causes undue hardship to the account holder, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the requirement of that provision or provisions in respect of such account holder, in a manner not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act.
32. Which Form Should be issued by Transferor Branch to Transferee Office in case the account opening Form with prescribed identification document is not available?
Form-16.The branch to give duly filled Form-16 to the transferee office, in case account opening forms are not traceable. The transferor branch shall verify all the information appearing in account opening form/Form-16.
33. Whether Change of name or surname may be allowed by the branch?
Yes. Change of name or surname may be allowed by the branch by following the procedure laid down by RBI for change of name or surname in Bank Savings account.
34. Whether NRI can be made nominee?
Yes. Non-resident Indians shall be eligible to be nominated as nominee subject to the condition that payment to such nominee/s shall be on non-repatriation basis.
35. Whether Guardian can be changed in case of account of minor or person of unsound mind?
Yes. In the event of death of guardian or on order from any Court of Law in any case of change in the guardian ,the succeeding guardian shall be eligible to operate the account of the minor or the person of unsound mind as the case may be.
36. If there is no nomination in the account, then how the deceased settlement will be done by the branch if the proceeds are up-to Rs. 5.00 lacs?
If a depositor dies and there is no nomination in force at the time of his death, and the probate of his will or letters of administration of estate or a succession certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), or legal heir certificate issued by the revenue authority not below the rank of Tahsildar having jurisdiction, is not produced within six months from the date of death of the depositor to the Branch ,where the account stands, then,-
if the eligible amount in the account does not exceed Rupees five lakh, the branch, for reasons to be recorded in writing, may pay the same to any person appearing to the branch as the rightful claimant and to the satisfaction of the branch ,to be entitled to receive the amount or to administer the estate of the deceased, on an application in Form- 11 accompanied by the following documents; namely:-
Death certificate of the account holder;
Passbook or deposit receipt or statement of account in original;
Affidavit in Form-13;
Letter of disclaimer in Form-14;
Bond of Indemnity in Form-15; and
Identity proof of the legal heir;
Provided further that, in case of any dispute raised before the Branch and before the payment of claim, the amount shall be paid by the Branch to the claimant on submission of a succession certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925) issued by the Court only along with the following documents; namely:-
Claim form;
Pass book or deposit receipt or statement of account in original;
Death certificate of the account holder; and
Identity proof of the legal heir.
37. If there is no nomination in the account, then how the deceased settlement will be done by the branch if the proceeds are above Rs. 5.00 lacs?
If the eligible amount in a deceased account is above Rupees five lakh, the amount shall be paid by the Branch to the claimant on submission of the probate of his will or letters of administration of estate or a succession certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925) issued by the Court, or legal heir certificate issued by the revenue authority not below the rank of Tahsildar having jurisdiction along with the following documents; namely:-
Claim form;
Passbook or deposit receipt or statement of account in original;
Death certificate of the account holder; and
Identity proof of the legal heir;
Provided further that, in case of any dispute raised before the Branch and before the payment of claim, the amount shall be paid by the Branch to the claimant on submission of a succession certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925) issued by the court only along with the following documents; namely:-
Claim form;
Passbook or deposit receipt or statement of account in original;
Death certificate of the account holder; and
Identity proof of the legal heir.
38. Whether Opening of Accounts, accepting deposits, making payments of interest and maturity or prematurity proceeds, withdrawal, closing and transferring accounts in conformity to these and scheme provisions and maintaining records thereof are responsibilities of the branch?
Yes, these are responsibilities of the branch maintaining the account.

===== SSA versus PPF.txt =====

On the basis of Eligibility

Sukanya Samriddhi Account can be opened by the guardian, in the name of the girl child. The maximum age limit to open the account is 10 years. An individual who is a resident of India, not an NRI, can open a PPF account. The age of entry in PPF is 18 years.

On the basis of Interest Rate

The interest rates for both the saving schemes keep changing in the financial year as they are linked to the Government security or G-Sec yields. The ROI is fixed and reviewed by the Government in every quarter. The current SSY Account rate of interest for Q2 (July-September) of FY 2025-26 is 8.2%. This interest is compounded annually. While calculating the interest on a monthly basis, the minimum balance in SSY account between the 10th and the end of the month into consideration. This implies that the investments must be made before 10th of every month.

And, the PPF rate of interest for Q2 FY 2025-26 (July-September) is 7.1%. For calculation of interest, the lowest balance between the 5th to the last day of each month is taken into consideration. So, investments should be made before the 5th of every month.

On the basis of tax benefits

If you invest in PPF, your investments qualify in the Exempt-Exempt-Exempt category. This implies that the investments made in this fund qualify for exemption under Section 80(C) of the Income Tax Act,1961. And, the interest accrued at the time of maturity is exempt from taxes. If you make a contribution of Rs.1.5 lakh per year (which is also the maximum limit of contribution) and you are in the 30% tax category, you will be able to save taxes amounting to Rs.45,000.

Likewise, Sukanya Samriddhi Account also falls under the Exempt-Exempt-Exempt category. The annual contributions are exempt from deductions under Section 80C of the Act. The interest accrued and final amount on maturity are exempt from taxes. Similar to PPF, SSY also allows a maximum contribution of Rs.1.5 lakh per financial year.

On the basis of the deposit limit

For PPF, the minimum deposit limit is Rs.500 and the maximum is Rs.1,50,000. For Sukanya Samriddhi Account, the minimum deposit limit is Rs.250 whereas the maximum limit is Rs.1,50,000.

On the basis of account opening

An eligible individual can open a Sukanya Samriddhi Account with an amount of Rs.1000 while the amount to start PPF account is Rs.100. You can open these accounts at post offices or banks. In case of any deviation from making a minimum contribution every year, an amount of Rs.50/- will be levied on respective account under PPF or SSY.

On the basis of withdrawal age

Partial or complete withdrawal can be made from a PPF account after the end of 6 financial years from the date it was opened. However, it is suggested that one should check with the respective website of the bank to determine when the partial withdrawal is allowed. Some banks, such as ICICI and Axis, allow withdrawals after 5 years and some after 7 years (SBI and HDFC).

For Sukanya Samriddhi Account, withdrawals are possible only after the girl child reaches the age of 18 and only for higher education purpose.

On the basis of account maturity

Public Provident Fund matures after a period of 15 years from the end of the financial year in which the account was issued. However, the investor is allowed to withdraw the maturity amount, extend the scheme period & contributions or extend the scheme period without any further contributions. Whereas, Sukanya Samriddhi Account matures after 21 years of account opening. Partial withdrawal can be done after the age of 18 years solely for higher education purposes.

On the basis of Premature Termination

Premature closure/withdrawals are possible in SSY as well only under any special cases- Untimely death of account holder, Inability to continue the account. PPF account can be closed prematurely after completion of 5 financial years in some special cases- treatment of some serious ailment or life-threatening diseases, higher education of the account holder.

On the basis of nomination

One can appoint nominees in case of PPF but the same is not possible for SSY Account holders.

On the basis of the loan facility

Investors can get loans under PPF which could help you sail through a temporary fund crisis. But, this facility is not available for SSA.

Choosing between Sukanya Samriddhi Account and Public Provident Fund is a settlement between flexibility and higher returns. PPF offers more flexibility and SSA gives higher returns. If you have a surplus amount which you want to invest, you can also choose to distribute their investments in both the schemes.
