Interest Subvention Scheme - NABARD - National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Home Skip to Main Content -A A +A A A A A A Sitemap Help हिन्दी National Portal National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development fostering rural prosperity Contact us About Us Who we are What we do Board of Directors Organogram HO Departments Regional Offices DDMs/DDOs (District Offices) Subsidiaries Training Establishments Information Centre Circulars Financial Reports Model Bankable Projects Publications Case Studies Unit Cost Credit Linked Plans National Level Papers State Level Papers State Focus Paper Potential Linked Plans Statewise Scale of Finance Govt. Sponsored Schemes Interest Rates Investor Relations Act & Regulations Debarred NGOs RTI NABARD in G20 Secured Assets SARFAESI Act BASEL III Disclosure Media Room Fair Lending Practices Project Locator Tenders Career Notices Scroll Down Interest Subvention Scheme The Honourable Finance Minister in his budget speech (para 49) for 2006-07 announced that the Government had decided to ensure that farmers receive short term credit at 7% with an upper limit of Rs. 3.00 lakh on the principal amount. The policy came into force with effect from Kharif 2006-07. The amount of subvention was to be calculated on the amount of crop loan from the date of disbursement up to the actual date of repayment of the crop loan by the farmer or up to the due date of the loan fixed by the banks, whichever is earlier, subject to a maximum period of one year. In pursuance of this announcement, the Government of India provided interest subvention of 2% to Public Sector Banks, Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) and Co-operative Banks in respect of short-term production credit up to Rs. 3 lakh provided to farmers out of their own resources, provided that they make available short-term credit @ 7% p.a. at ground level. Private Sector Banks (in respect of loans given by their rural and semi urban branches) are also covered under the scheme from the year 2013-14 with similar terms and conditions. Further, GOI has reduced the interest subvention from 2% to 1.5%, availed on short term loans for FY 2022-23 and 2023-24. A. Incentive to farmers on prompt repayments Since the year 2009-10, the Government of India introduced additional subvention of 1% to farmers as an incentive for repaying the loans promptly i.e. on or before the due date or the date fixed by the bank, subject to a maximum period of one year. It has been increased to 2% for 2010-11 and 3% from 2011-12. B. Relief to farmers To provide relief to farmers affected by natural calamities, Interest Subvention of 2% has been made available to banks for the first year on restructured amount of crop loans. Such restructured loans will attract normal rate of interest from the second year onwards as per the policy laid down by the RBI. Interest Subvention to Small and Marginal Farmers against Negotiable Warehouse Receipts In order to discourage distress sale of produce by farmers and to encourage them to store their produce in warehouses against warehouse receipts, GoI had introduced a scheme in 2011-12 for extending concessional loans to the farmers against negotiable warehouse receipts. The benefit of 2% interest subvention will be available to banks on their own funds involved for extending credit support up to Rs 3 lakh at 7% interest per annum to Small and Marginal farmers (SF/MF) having Kisan Credit Card for a further period of up to six months post the harvest of the crop against Negotiable Warehouse Receipts issued on the produce stored in warehouses accredited with Warehousing Development Regulatory Authority. SF/MF, who have not availed crop loans through banking system, would not be eligible. Interest subvention on working capital to Animal Husbandry and Fisheries The GoI has extended the Interest subvention Scheme on KCC issued to crop loan farmers to the KCC issued to Animal Husbandry and Fisheries farmers from 2018-19. Interest subvention of 2% to banks and 3% to farmers towards Prompt Repayment incentive is extended on short-term loans up to Rs2 lakh to animal husbandry and fisheries farmers apart from the existing KCC for crop loans, provided the loans are extended by banks @7% per annum. In case of farmers possessing KCC for raising crops and involved in activities related to Animal Husbandry and/ or Fisheries, the Interest Subvention on short-term loan is available on an overall limit of Rs.3 lakh per annum. The Govt of India has issued instruction that Interest Subvention to Banks and Prompt Repayment Incentive to farmers will be available only against KCCs from 1 April, 2020. GOVT. SPONSORED SCHEMES Farm Sector Non-Operational/Close Scheme Agricultural Debt Waiver And Debt Relief Scheme, 2008 Commercial production units of organic inputs - National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) Dairy Entrepreneurship Development Scheme National Livestock Mission Operational Scheme Agriclinic and Agribusiness Centres Scheme Interest Subvention Scheme New Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme for Extending Financial Assistance to Sugar Mills for Enhancement and Augmentation of Ethanol Production Capacity Off Farm Sector Special Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme (SCLCSS) Stand up India Quick Links Citizen's Charter Other Related Links Public Notices Grievances / Enquiry / Feedback Right to Information Glossary Tenders Contact Us Financial Supervisory Interest Rates GOVT. Sponsored Scheme Financial Reports Publications Acts & Regulations Case Studies Warehouse Directory Investor Relations Debarred NGOs by NABARD Privacy Statement Clarifications Fraud Complaints Other NABARD Links Gender Policy of NABARD Department of Financial Services Internal Committee Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act,2013 ESMS Document For Solar Rooftop Investment Program (Tranche 3) Follow Us National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer © NABARD. Site By Cyfuture India Pvt Ltd. Scroll Up