===== SBi education loan.txt =====

SBI PM-Vidyalaxmi Scheme
PMVL-Utkarsh 6.90%
PMVL- Uttam 7.20%
PMVL- Uday 8.40%
Present EBR is 7.90%
SBI STUDENT LOAN SCHEME
Without Collateral (Upto ₹7.50 lakh) 9.90%
With Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh) 8.90%
Takeover (above ₹10.00 lakh, with collateral) 8.90%
0.50% concession in interest for girl students
SBI SCHOLAR LOAN SCHEME
For select institutions 6.90% to 7.65%
Takeover (above Rs. 10.00 Lacs) 6.90% to 7.65%
Click here for list of select Scholar Loan institutions
SBI GLOBAL ED-VANTAGE SCHEME
With Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh to ₹3.00 crore) 8.90%
Takeover (above ₹10.00 lakh, with collateral) 8.90%
0.50% concession in interest for girl students
For select institutions
Without Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh to ₹50.00 Lakh 8.90%
With Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh to ₹3.00 crore) 8.40%
Takeover (above Rs. 10.00 lakh) 8.40% to 8.90%
No additional concession for girl students
Click here for list of select Global Ed-Vantage institutions
SHAURYA EDUCATION LOAN
(For spouse/wards of Defence, Indian Coast Guard & Central Armed Police Personnel)
Without Collateral (Upto ₹7.50 lakh 9.90%
Without Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh up to ₹ 40 lakh) 9.40%
With Collateral (Above ₹7.50 lakh up to ₹1.50 crore) 8.90%
Takeover (above Rs. 10.00 lakh) 8.90% to 9.90%
0.50% concession in interest for girl students
SBI SKILL LOAN SCHEME
Without Collateral (Upto ₹7.50 lakh) 9.40%
*EBR = Repo Rate + Spread,
 Currently: Repo rate = 5.25%, Spread = 2.65%, EBR = 7.90%

Mean Rate of Interest (Q3 FY26) 9.39%

1. Purpose for which the loan can be availed:
The loan will be sanctioned for extending financial assistance to
deserving/ meritorious students for pursuing higher education in
India and abroad.

2. Courses Eligible:
a. Studies in India:
 Courses leading to Graduate/Post-Graduate Degrees, post
graduate Diplomas conducted by colleges/universities
recognized by UGC/Govt./AICTE/ AIBMS/ ICMR, etc.
 Courses like ICWA, CA, CFA, etc.
 Courses conducted by IIM, IIT, IISc, XLRI, NIFT, NID, ISB,
etc.
 Courses offered in India by approved reputed foreign
universities.
 Regular Degree/Diploma Courses like Aeronautical,
Commercial Pilot Training, shipping etc., Degree/Diploma in
Nursing or any discipline approved by Director General of
Civil Aviation/Shipping/ respectively or any other regulatory
Body as the case may be, if the course is pursued in India.
b. Studies abroad:
 Graduation: For job oriented professional/ Technical
courses offered by reputed Institutions (including
Foundation/Pathway/Integrated Courses)
 Post-graduation: MCA, MBA, MS, etc. Job oriented
professional/ technical Post Graduate Diploma/ Certificate
courses offered by reputed Institutions
 Doctorate Programmes (Ph.D.) courses
 Courses conducted by CIMA (Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants) - London, CPA (Certified Public
Accountant) in USA etc.
 Degree/diploma courses like aeronautical, pilot training,
shipping etc. provided these are recognized by competent
regulatory bodies in India /abroad for the purpose of
employment in India/abroad.

3. Student Eligibility:
 Should be an Indian National (including NRIs)
 Secured admission to a recognized university/Institution
 For PIOs/OCIs, loan to be extended for studies in India only

4. Expenses Considered for Loan:
 Fee payable to college/school/hostel
 Examination/Library/Laboratory fee
 Purchase of books/ equipments/ instruments/ uniforms,
Purchase of computers - essential for completion of the
course
 Any other expense required to complete the course - like
study tours, project work, thesis, etc.
 Caution deposit /building fund/refundable deposit supported
by Institution bills/receipts.
 Travel expenses/passage money for studies abroad.
 Cost of a two-wheeler upto Rs. 50,000 can be included in
the expenses considered eligible for finance where the loan
amount is secured by a suitable third-party guarantee and/or
tangible collateral security.
 Premium of ‘RiNn Raksha’ (IRDA License No: UIN:
111N078V01) insurance policy: Finance for ‘RiNn Rakhsha’
will improve insurance-coverage of the loan

5. Loan Amount:
 Studies in India:
 Medical Courses: Upto Rs. 30.00 lacs
 Other Courses: Upto Rs. 10.00 lacs
Higher loan limit for studies in India may be considered on
case-to-case basis, maximum upto Rs 50.00 lacs
 Studies Abroad: Maximum Rs. 7.50 lacs
Higher loan limit for studies abroad are considered under our
SBI Global Ed-Vantage Scheme

6. Margin:
 Upto Rs.4 lacs: Nil
 Above Rs.4 lacs: Studies in India: 5 %
 Studies Abroad: 15 %
 For an education loan for more than Rs 4.00 lacs & upto Rs.
7.5 lacs for Studies abroad, applicant will be required to
make a deposit of Rs 5000/-. If the applicant avails of the
loan, the amount of Rs 5000/- will be adjusted against the
contribution of margin money by him. If no margin is payable
by him, the amount may be adjusted against the interest
payable on the loan. If the applicant does not avail of the
loan within a period of 6 months of sanction of the loan, the
amount will be appropriated by the bank.
 The expenses connected with the Title investigation Report
(TIR) of the borrower / Guarantor and valuation reports on
the same will be borne by the borrower.
 Scholarship/ assistantship to be included in margin.
 Margin may be brought in as and when disbursements are
made, on a pro-rata basis.

7. Security:
 Upto Rs. 7.50 lacs
 Co-obligation of parent/ guardian
 No security
 No third-party guarantee

 Above Rs.7.50 lacs
 Co-obligation of parent/ guardian together with tangible
collateral security of suitable value, along with the
assignment of future income of the student for payment of
instalments.
 The security can be in the form of land/ building/ Govt.
Securities/ Bonds issued by PSUs/LIC policy, Mutual
Fund, Bank Deposit in the name of student/ parent/
guardian/ any other third party and such other tangible
liquid securities as may be deemed appropriate by the
sanctioning authority.

 The documents should be executed by both the student and
the parent/guardian as joint-borrower. We clarify that if the
student is a minor, the documents will be signed by the
guardian acting `for self’ as well as `for and on behalf of the
minor’.
 The co-obligator should be parent/ guardian of the student
borrower. In case of married person, co-obligator can be
spouse or the parent(s)/parents-in-law.

8. Appraisal, Sanction & Disbursement:
 Application will be received through Vidya Lakshmi Portal
(VLP) of Govt. of India in the Branch. Upon receipt of
application, a system-generated acknowledgement email
with 12-digit reference number will be sent on registered
email id.
 The loan is generally sanctioned at the branch nearest to the
permanent residential address/place of domicile of the
student/parent.
 The loan to be disbursed in stages as per the requirement/
demand directly to the Institutions/Vendors of books/
equipments/ instruments to the extent possible.
 In genuine cases, the fee already paid to the institute by the
borrower from their own sources may be considered for
reimbursement provided the reimbursement is claimed within
6 months of the payment, supported by verifying receipts/
proof of payment/ account statement etc.

SBI-STUDENT LOAN SCHEME
MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

9. Processing Charges:
 Loans upto Rs. 7.50 lacs: NIL

10. Rate of Interest:
 Kindly go to https://www.sbi.co.in/portal/web/interest
rates/education-loan-scheme for latest Rate of Interest
applied.

11. Penalty: If the EMI / Instalment(s) is not credited in the loan
account of the borrower on due date, the undernoted charges
will be recovered from the borrower:
 Penal interest @ 2% p.m. to be charged for loans above
Rs. 4 lacs for the overdue amount and overdue period.

12. Repayment Holiday/ Moratorium:
 Repayment Holiday/ Moratorium: Course period plus 1 year,
or 6 months after getting job, whichever is earlier.
 Servicing of Interest during Course & Moratorium is Optional.

13. Repayment Period:
 Repayment Period: Upto 15 years after completion of course
& moratorium.
 If the student is not able to complete the course within the
scheduled time, extension of time for completion of course
may be permitted for a maximum period of 2 years.
 In case the interest is not serviced during course &
moratorium, the accrued interest to be added to the principal
and repayment to be fixed in Equated Monthly Installments
(EMI).

14. Top Up Loan
 Second loan (Top Up) Loan within the overall limit is
permitted to pursue a professional course in India or abroad
provided such further studies are commenced during the
moratorium period of the first loan and subject to the second
loan being allowed with the security requirements as
applicable to the aggregate loan limit.
 The projected income of the student, after placement, should
be sufficient to cover full loan repayment. As the student will
not be able to take up a job after completion of the first
course, his obligation to repay the loan after one year of
completion of the first course would also need to be
deferred. In such cases, the moratorium period may be
extended for the duration of the second course and the
combined repayment shifted to one year after the completion
of the second course
Note: In cases where the student is pursuing higher studies by
availing Second Loan from some other Bank, there will be no
change in the moratorium period.

15. Timeline for Disposal of Loan Application
 Maximum 15 days, after the receipt of duly completed
application with supporting documents.
 The timeline starts from the date of receipt of complete
documents from the applicant and the time taken by the
applicant for submitting documents and/ or for furnishing
information sought by the Bank will not be taken into account
for the purpose of timeline indicated above.
 All timeline counts will be on the basis of full working days.
Wherever there is a need for verification etc. with various
authorities/ Govt. bodies across one or more centres, a
minimum of 15 additional working days will be applicable.
 We shall endeavor, at all times, to deliver within the
indicated timelines, barring in situations and circumstances
that are beyond the control of the Bank.

Customer Service:
For any service-related issue, customer can get in touch with SBI:
 Calling Customer Help Line Numbers
 Contact Customer Grievance Cell at our Local Head Offices
 Write to Grievance Cell at our Local Head Offices
(Details on Helpline Numbers and Grievance Cell available on
www.sbi.co.in)
In case a customer is not satisfied with the handling of grievance by
the Local Head Office, a communication may be sent (enclosing the
message sent earlier to Local Head Office) to the -
Customer Service Department,
State Bank of India, State Bank Bhavan, 16th Floor
Madam Cama Road, Mumbai 400 021
Tel: 022-22029456, Fax: 022 22742431
E-mail address - customercare@sbi.co.in
Toll free number: 1800-11-2211, 1800-425-3800, 080-26599990

Disclosure:
State Bank of India is authorized to disclose from time to time any
information relating to the loan to any credit bureau (Existing or
Future) approved by Government of India and Reserve Bank of India
without any notice to the borrower. State Bank of India is also
authorized to make inquiries with any Credit Bureau and get the
applicants’ Credit Information Report.

*Terms & Conditions mentioned herein are subject to change without
prior notice.

Expenses covered:
Fee payable to college/school/hostel (including Boarding & Lodging).

Examination/ Library/ Laboratory fee.

Travel expenses/ passage money for studies abroad.

Purchase of books/ equipment/ instruments/ uniforms/ computer

Expenses study tours, project work, thesis, etc.

Caution deposit, Building fund/ refundable deposit.

Tax collection at Source (TCS) on remittances under Liberalized Remittance Scheme (LRS).

Contingency expenses upto 5% to meet unforeseen requirement of Student-borrower.

Premium of Edu-Shield/ ‘RiNn Rakhsha’ to cover the loan exposure.

Document checklist:
Education loan application form.

Identity proof: PAN/ Passport/ Driver’s License/ Voter ID card or government-issued identification document.

Address proof: recent copy of telephone bill/ electricity bill/water bill/ piped gas bill/ Driving License/ Aadhaar card.

Passport

Past academic record:

10th standard mark sheet

12th standard mark sheet

Undergraduate result (semester-wise)

Post graduate result (semester-wise)

Entrance exam results (e.g., GMAT, GRE, TOEFL, etc.)

Proof of admission

2 passport-size photographs.

Bank account statement of the student (if applicable), the co-borrower/guarantor, for the last 6 months

Loan A/C statement of one year (if applicable)

Legal documents of the collateral/ property documents.

Income proof for salaried co-borrower/guarantor:

Salary slips for the last 3 months.

Copy of Form 16 of the last 2 years or copy.

Bank account statement for the last 6 months (Salary account).

Brief statement of assets & liabilities of co-borrower.

Income proof for self-employed co-borrower/guarantor:

Business address proof.

Last 2 years IT returns (If applicable).

TDS certificate (Form 16A, if applicable).

Certificate of qualification (for C.A./ doctor and other professionals).

Brief statement of assets & liabilities of co-borrower

SBI GLOBAL ED-VANTAGE SCHEME:
Discover detailed frequently asked questions and corresponding answers below regarding the SBI GLOBAL ED-VANTAGE SCHEME.

1. What courses are covered under the State Bank of India Global Ed-Vantage Scheme?
Regular Graduate Degree/Post-Graduate Degree/Diploma/Certificate/Doctorate Courses in any discipline offered by foreign Institutes/Universities in USA, UK, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Japan, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Europe [Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom] will be covered under the scheme.

For all other courses covered please refer to the PDF for more detailed information.

2. Who are the borrowers and what eligibility criteria is there?
The student is the primary borrower and co-borrowers is mandatory. While the student borrower’s eligibility is examined from his/her academic records, co-borrower(s) is considered based on his/her relationship with the Borrower and financial discipline. Additionally, both the Borrower and Co-Borrowers are also examined based on their CIC scores and residential status.

Please refer to the PDF for more detailed information regarding borrower eligibility.

3. What type of expenses can be covered by the Education Loan?
Some examples of expenses that can be covered:

Fee payable to college/school/hostel (including Boarding & Lodging).

Examination/Library/Laboratory fee.

Travel expenses/passage money for studies abroad.

Purchase of books/equipment/instruments/uniforms/ computer at reasonable cost.

Caution deposit, Buildings fund/refundable deposit supported by Institution bills/receipts.

Cost of a two-wheeler upto Rs. 50,000 can be included in the expenses considered eligible for finance where the loan amount is secured by a suitable third-party guarantee and/or tangible collateral security.

Please refer to the PDF for more detailed information regarding items that maybe covered by the education loan.

4. How much can I borrow on education loan with State Bank of India (SBI)?
Loan amount:

Minimum: Rs. 7.5 Lakhs

Maximum: Rs. 1.5 Cr

5. What are the rates of Interest and Concessions on a State Bank of India (SBI) Education Loan?
Loan Limit:

For loans exceeding Rs. 7.50 Lakhs up to Rs. 1.50 Cr, the applicable interest rate is 9.15% under the floating rate type with 2.00% spread.

Concessions:

A 0.50% concession is provided for female students.

0.50% concession for students availing of SBI Rinn Raksha or any other existing life insurance policy assigned in favour of our Bank.

6. How and when will I receive the loan amount, and when do repayments start and for what duration?
All the eligible expenses considered for the loan will be disbursed in phases as per demand of the Institutes or the student as per requirement. Bank takes Loan exposure in our Book in INR for all type of Education loans i.e., loans which are disbursed in INR and remitted in INR for studies in India and remitted in foreign Currencies for studies abroad.

Repayments & duration:

Up to a maximum of 15 years after commencement of repayment.

Repayment starts 6 months after the completion of the course.

Please refer to the PDF attachment for more detailed information regarding disbursements, how the loan will be paid, repayments and the terms of repayments.

SHAURYA EDUCATION LOAN:
Discover detailed frequently asked questions and corresponding answers below regarding the SHAURYA EDUCATION LOAN.

1. What courses are covered under the State Bank of India Shaurya Education Loans?
Regular Graduate Degree/Post-Graduate Degree/Diploma/Certificate/Doctorate Courses in any discipline offered by foreign Institutes/Universities in USA, UK, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Japan, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Europe [Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom] will be covered under the scheme.

For all other courses covered please refer to the PDF attachment for more detailed information.

2. Who are the borrowers and what eligibility criteria is there?
The student is the primary borrower and co-borrowers is mandatory. While the student borrower’s eligibility is examined from his/her academic records, co-borrower(s) is considered based on his/her relationship with the Borrower and financial discipline. Additionally, both the Borrower and Co-Borrowers are also examined based on their CIC scores and residential status. In addition:

Student should be Spouse & Ward of DSP/ ICGSP/CAPSP in all Ranks

Co-borrower must be DSP/ICGSP/CAPSP account holder in our Bank. The Salary/Pension account of the co-applicant should be with SBI throughout the loan tenure

Please refer to the PDF attachment for more detailed information regarding borrower eligibility.

3. What type of expenses can be covered by the Shaurya Education Loans?
Some examples of expenses that can be covered:

Fee payable to college/school/hostel (including Boarding & Lodging).

Examination/Library/Laboratory fee.

Travel expenses/passage money for studies abroad.

Purchase of books/equipment/instruments/uniforms/ computer at reasonable cost.

Caution deposit, Buildings fund/refundable deposit supported by Institution bills/receipts.

Cost of a two-wheeler upto Rs. 50,000 can be included in the expenses considered eligible for finance where the loan amount is secured by a suitable third-party guarantee and/or tangible collateral security.

Please refer to the PDF attachment for more detailed information regarding items that maybe covered by the education loan.

4. How much can I borrow on Shaurya Education Loans with State Bank of India (SBI)?
For Studies in India Loan Amount: Rs. 40 Lakhs

For Studies Abroad Loan Amount: Rs. 1.50 Cr

5. What are the rates of Interest and Concessions on a State Bank of India (SBI) Education Loan?
The loan limit for amounts up to 7.50 lakhs carries an EBR of 9.15% with a 2.00% spread, and the rate type is floating. Female students receive a 0.50% interest concession.

For amounts above Rs. 7.50 Lakhs and up to Rs. 1.50 Cr, secured loans have an EBR of 9.15% with a 2.00% spread, while unsecured loans have a 2.60% spread. Female students receive a 0.50% concession, and there's an additional 0.50% concession for students availing of SBI Rinn Raksha or any other existing life insurance policy assigned to our Bank.

Please refer to the PBBU site and e-Circulars for the latest interest rates.

6. How and when will I receive the loan amount, and when do repayments start and for what duration?
All the eligible expenses considered for the loan will be disbursed in phases as per demand of the Institutes or the student as per requirement. Bank takes Loan exposure in our Book in INR for all type of Education loans i.e., loans which are disbursed in INR and remitted in INR for studies in India and remitted in foreign Currencies for studies abroad.

Repayments and duration:

Up to a maximum of 15 years after commencement of repayment.

Please refer to the PDF attachment for more detailed information regarding disbursements, how the loan will be paid, repayments and the terms of repayments.

SBI Education Loan
State Bank of India (SBI) offers a variety of education loans with interest rates ranging from 6.90% p.a. to 9.90% p.a. These loans come with flexible repayment options, including a moratorium period after the course is completed.

There are no pre-payment penalty charges, allowing borrowers to repay the loan at any time during the loan tenure. Additionally, some loans offer interest concessions for female students.

SBI provides student loans for both domestic and international studies, covering professional and vocational courses. They also offer takeover loans, which allow you to replace your existing high-interest loans with SBI loans at lower interest rates. Read on to explore the features, interest rates, and application process for SBI education loans.

SBI Education Loan Schemes
Mentioned below are various education loan schemes offered by the State Bank of India, including details like rate of interest, processing fees, etc.

1. SBI Student Loan Scheme
Loan Amount

Details

Up to Rs. 7.50 lakh without Security

Rate of Interest: 9.90% p.a.

Concession: 0.50% concession in interest for girl students

Above Rs. 7.50 lakh with Security

Rate of Interest: 8.90% p.a.

Concession: 0.50% concession in interest for girl students.

Takeover above Rs.10.00 lakh with Security

8.90% p.a.

Key points
Purpose: Loan for higher education in India & abroad.
Eligible Courses: UG/PG degrees, diplomas, professional courses (ICWA, CA, CFA), top institutes (IIM, IIT, NIFT, ISB); abroad: MCA, MBA, MS, Ph.D., recognized professional courses.
Student Eligibility: Indian nationals (NRIs included); PIO/OCI only for India.
Loan Amount: India: Rs.30–75 lakh (max Rs,1 crore case-by-case); Abroad: up to Rs.7.5 lakh.
Margin: No margin required up to Rs.4 lakh. For more than Rs.4 lakh: 5% margin is required for study in India and 15% for studies abroad.
Security: Less than Rs.7.5 lakh requires only Parent/guardian co-obligation. For more than Rs.7.5 lakh, a Co-obligation plus collateral is required.
Expenses Covered: Tuition, hostel, books, equipment, travel, projects, two-wheeler up to Rs.50,000.
Repayment: After course completion plus 1 year or 6 months after job whichever is earlier, maximum 15 years.
Top-up Loan: Allowed during moratorium and repayment within 15 years.
Processing Charges: Loans upto Rs. 7.50 lacs - NIL
Penalty: 2% per month will be charged on overdue amounts for loans above Rs.4 lakh.
2. SBI Scholar Loan Scheme
List

Rate of Interest

For Select Institutions

6.90% p.a. to 7.65% p.a.

Takeover (Above Rs.10.00 lakh)

6.90% p.a. to 7.65% p.a.

Key Points
Purpose: Loan for meritorious students to pursue higher education in selected premier institutes.
Eligible Courses: Full-time degree/diploma courses, executive management programs (PGPX), and selected part-time UG/PG courses.
Student Eligibility: Indian nationals (including NRIs), PIO/OCI only for studies in India, admission through entrance/selection process.
Loan Amount: Up to Rs.40 lakh (List AA), Rs.30 lakh with collateral, Rs.20 lakh (List A/B), and Rs.7.5 lakh (List C).
Margin: No margin up to Rs.4 lakh; 5% for loans between Rs.4 lakh and 7.5 lakh; no margin above Rs.7.5 lakh.
Expenses Covered: Tuition & hostel fees, books, equipment, deposits, travel, laptop, and other education-related expenses.
Repayment: Course period plus 1 year moratorium; repayment up to 15 years.
Top-up Loan: Allowed for further studies within overall loan limits.
Processing Charges: NIL
Penalty: Rs.500 plus taxes for missed EMI; 2% per month on overdue amount (for loans above Rs.4 lakh).
Application Timeline: Maximum 15 days after receipt of completed application and documents.
3. SBI Skill Loan Scheme
Loan Limit

Details

Without Collateral (Upto ₹7.50 lakh)

9.40% p.a.

Key Points
Purpose: Loan for skill development courses to improve employment.
Eligible Courses: Courses offered by ITIs, Polytechnics, NSDC/Skill Councils, State Skill Missions, and recognized schools/colleges under NSQF.
Loan Amount: Rs.5,000 to Rs.1.5 lakh.
Margin and Processing fee: NIL
Security: No collateral; only parent/guardian co-obligation; no third-party guarantor.
Expenses Covered: Course fee, exam/library/lab fees, caution deposit, books, equipment, and other related expenses.
Repayment: Loan amount of Rs.50,000 (up to 3 years), loan amount between Rs.50,000 and Rs.1 lakh (5 years), and Loan amount more than Rs.1 lakh (7 years).
Moratorium: 6 months after course completion (if course is up to 1 year) and 12 months after completion (if course is more than 1 year).
Insurance: Optional life insurance for the borrower, assigned in favour of SBI
4. SBI Global Ed-Vantage Scheme
Loan Limit

Details

Above Rs. 7.50 lakh

Rate of Interest: 8.90% p.a.; Concession: 0.50% concession for girl students

Takeover (Above Rs.10.00 lakh) With Security

8.90%

For Select Institutions

Above Rs.7.50 lakh to Rs.50.0 lakh Without Security

8.90% p.a.

Above Rs.7.50 lakh to Rs.3.00 crore With Security

8.40% p.a.

Takeover (Above Rs.10.00 lakh)

8.40% p.a. to 8.90% p.a.

Key Points
Purpose: Loan for meritorious students to pursue full-time courses in foreign universities.
Eligible Courses: UG/PG/Doctorate degrees, diplomas, and certificate courses in countries like USA, UK, Canada, Australia, Europe, Singapore, Japan, Hong Kong, and New Zealand.
Student Eligibility: Indian nationals (including NRIs) with confirmed admission in a foreign university.
Loan Amount: Rs.20 lakh to Rs.1.5 crore.
Margin: 10% (scholarship/assistantship included).
Security: Parent/guardian as co-borrower plus tangible collateral security; third-party collateral also accepted.
Expenses Covered: Tuition, hostel, travel, books, equipment, deposits, insurance premium, and other study-related expenses.
Repayment: Up to 15 years after course completion + moratorium.
Moratorium: Course period + 6 months after completion.
Processing Charges: Rs.10,000 plus taxes.
Penalty: Rs.500 plus taxes for missed EMI; 2% per month on overdue amount (for loans above Rs.4 lakh).
5. Shaurya Education Loan (For spouses or wards of Defence, Indian Coast Guard & Central Armed Police Personnel)
Loan Limit

Details

Up to 7.50 lakh Without Security

Rate of Interest: 9.90% p.a.

Above Rs. 7.50 lakh up to Rs.40.00 lakh Without Security

Rate of Interest: 9.40% p.a.

Above Rs.7.50 lakh with security

8.90% p.a.

Takeover (Above Rs.10.00 lakh)

8.90% p.a. to 9.90% p.a.

Key Points
Purpose: Loan for wards of DSP/ICGSP officers for studies in India & abroad.
Eligible Courses: UG/PG/Doctorate, professional courses (ICWA, CA, CFA), top institutes (IIM, IIT, ISB), aviation, pilot, nursing, and recognized courses abroad (MCA, MBA, MS, CIMA, CPA).
 Student Eligibility: Wards of DSP/ICGSP officers; co-borrower must be Diamond/Platinum SBI account holder.
Loan Amount: Up to Rs.40 lakh for studying in India and up to Rs.1.5 crore for studying in abroad.
Margin: Up to Rs.4 lakh: NIL; Above Rs.4 lakh: 5%.
Security: No collateral required up to Rs.7.5 lakh. If the loan amount is more than that, parent/guardian co-borrower with liquid/property collateral (100–110% of loan) is required. Also, EM must be created within six months.
Expenses Covered: Tuition, hostel, books, instruments, computers, uniforms, travel, study tours, insurance, two-wheeler (up to Rs.50,000 with collateral).
Processing Charges: Up to Rs.20 lakh: NIL; Above Rs.20 lakh: Rs.10,000 + GST.
Penalty: 2% per month on overdue amounts above Rs.4 lakh.
Moratorium: Course period + 1 year, or 6 months after job (whichever is earlier).
Repayment Period: Up to 15 years after course & moratorium.
Top-up Loan: You can take a second loan for further studies during the moratorium, and repayment can be delayed and combined until after the second course is completed.
SBI PM-Vidyalaxmi Scheme
Scheme

Interest Rate

PMVL-Utkarsh

6.90%

PMVL- Uttam

7.20%

PMVL- Uday

8.40%

Key Points
Purpose: Financial support for meritorious students in top institutes (India).
Key Features: Collateral-free, guarantor-free loan with digital application process.
Loan Amount: Maximum Rs.3 crore.
Eligible Courses: UG/PG degree and diploma courses in selected top institutes in India.
Margin: Up to Rs.4 lakh: NIL; between Rs.4.00 lakh to Rs.7.5 lakh: 5%; above Rs.7.5 lakh: NIL.
Moratorium: Course period + 1 year.
Tenure: 15 years excluding course period and moratorium under the scheme.
Application Process: Apply through PM-Vidyalaxmi portal.
Co-borrower: Not required up to Rs.75 lakh but mandatory for minors.
Documents Required for SBI Education Loan
The following is the list of documents required to avail State Bank of India (SBI) Education Loan:

Mark sheet of 10, 12, graduation and entrance examination
Admission Letter or offer letter as proof of admission to course
Course expense details
Documents confirming scholarship or free ship
Self-declaration for gap in studies (if applicable)
One passport size photograph each of the student and parent/co-borrower/co-applicant
For loans above Rs 7.5 lakh, asset-liability statement of co-applicant or guarantor is required
Latest salary slips and Form 16 or IT Return for salaried applicants
Business address proof and latest salary slip for non-salaried applicants
Last six months bank account statements of parent, guarantor, or guardian
If immovable property offered as collateral security, then copy of Sale Deed is needed
Permanent Account Number (PAN) of student and parent, guarantor, or co-borrower
Aadhar
Passport
SBI Education Loan EMI Calculator
You may better plan your costs and manage your student finances if you know exactly how much your Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) on your SBI education loan will be. Get a full amortisation table with the breakdown of your EMIs by using the Education Loan EMI Calculator.

This user-friendly online EMI calculator shows your EMI information right away on the page. All you have to do is enter your requested or sanctioned loan amount, term, and the interest rate offered by SBI in the applicable boxes (use the slider for the loan amount and tenure and key in the values for the interest rate and processing fee. Decide if you want to make any prepayments as well. When you select 'Calculate' , you can check your EMI details.

How to Apply for an SBI Education Loan (Online & Offline)
You can apply for an SBI education loan either online or offline

Offline:

Step 1: Walk into your nearest SBI branch with all the necessary documents.

Step 2: Fill in and submit the application form that you can obtain from there.

Online:

Step 1: Visit the SBI official website.

Step 2: Navigate to the section on Education Loan.

Step 3: Choose your preferred loan option.

Step 4: Click on 'Apply Now'.

Step 5: You will be redirected to the Vidya Lakshmi website.

Step 6: Register yourself by entering all your details.

Step 7: Finally apply for the loan.

Step 8: A bank representative will get in touch with you.

SBI Scholar Loans: Available in select campuses or mapped branches.

FAQs on SBI Education Loan
What is SBI Education Loan?
SBI education loan is a student loan offered by State Bank of India to fund higher education in India and abroad. It covers tuition, hostel, travel, and other expenses with repayment starting after course completion.

Is there any interest rate concession available on SBI education loans other than for girl students?
An interest rate concession of 0.50% is available for students who buy the SBI Rinn Raksha or other life insurance policy from the bank. This is available for those students who are applying for the SBI Student Loan Scheme and SBI Global Ed-Vantage Scheme.

Will the SBI education loan cover expenses related to accommodation on campus?
Yes, fees for accommodation provided by the school or college authorities, or in a hostel provided by the educational institution, is covered under the education loan offered by State Bank of India.

Is there any way to get further concession on SBI education loan interest?
You can get a 1% concession in interest throughout your loan tenure if you pay back the interest amount during the period of your course and moratorium.

If boarding and lodging at the school or college are arranged outside the campus by the student, will the expenses for that be covered under the SBI education loan?
In cases where boarding and lodging is arranged outside the campus of the educational institution, or are not connected to it, then the expenses will be covered under the education loan based on the student's or parents' estimate; however, it should not exceed the expenses incurred by students who avail boarding facilities of the educational institution.

If a student takes up another course after the completion of the first one, will the moratorium period be extended further?
If the student enrols for another course after the first one is completed, then the moratorium period will be extended for the entire duration of the second course. The repayment of the education loan will then start only one year after the second course has been completed or six months after getting employed, whichever comes first.

If a student is not able to complete the course within its time duration, will an extension of time be permitted for its completion?
If, for any reason that is beyond the control of the student, the course cannot be completed within its scheduled time duration, then the time required to complete it can be extended for up to two years; however, anything beyond the two years will require special sanction from the bank authorities and will be given according to their discretion.

If I require my own vehicle to travel to the educational institution, for lack of public transport, will the expenses to buy one be included in the education loan?
In cases where you require your own vehicle to reach your educational institution, you are eligible for an amount of up to Rs.50,000 to buy a two-wheeler of your own, which will be covered under the expenses of the education loan.

Is the purchase of a computer required for the course covered under the education loan?
Yes, you can buy a computer or laptop that is required for your course as it is covered under the expenses of the education loan.

Will the SBI education loan be given as a lumpsum or in tranches?
The SBI education loan is usually disbursed in tranches and not as a lumpsum amount.

===== FAQ Educational Loan.txt =====

FAQ Educational Loan
Q. What are the important documents that I need to provide?
A. You will need to furnish the following documents along with the completed application form. Relevant information would relate to the guardian and the student both, when the loan is jointly taken.
Mark sheet of last qualifying examination for school and graduate studies in India
Proof of admission to the course
Schedule of expenses for the course
Copies of letter confirming scholarship, etc.
Copies of foreign exchange permit, if applicable.
2 passport size photographs
Statement of Bank account for the last six months of borrower
Income tax assessment order not more than 2 years old
Brief statement of assets and liabilities of borrower.
If you are not an existing bank customer you would also need to establish your identity and give proof of residence.
Q. Are there any charges or processing fee?
There is no additional charge or processing fee for education loans upto ¿ 20 lakhs. For loans above ¿ 20 lakhs, processing fee of ¿ 10,000 + GST is applicable.
For Scholar loans, there is no additional charge or processing fee irrespective of the loan amount.
In case of land/ property offered as collateral, legal/ valuation/ mortgage charges will be applicable
In case of land/ property offered as collateral, legal/ valuation/ mortgage charges will be applicable
Q. Since there is a moratorium period, how will my repayments be determined?
A. The outstanding interest for the moratorium period will be added to the loan amount at the time of commencement of the repayment. The EMI will be determined on this amount at the time the repayment is to commence.
Q. What is EMI? How is it calculated?
A.The outstanding interest for the moratorium period will be added to the loan amount at the time of commencement of the repayment. The EMI will be determined on this amount at the time the repayment is to commence
Q. What is EMI? How is it calculated?
A. EMI stands for Equated Monthly Instalments. This instalment comprises both principal and interest components. Your EMI would be calculated depending on the tenor you choose, to repay your loan. The EMI would be higher if you choose to repay within a shorter period as against a longer-term loan. A shorter repayment period, however, reduces your interest cost over the term of the loan.
Q. What is the repayment schedule like?
A. The repayment would begin one year after the course period or six months after you get a job, whichever is earlier. You are expected to pay a minimum amount equivalent to the EMI on a monthly basis. However, you can choose to pay more than the EMI, and we do not charge any prepayment penalty.
Q. Where can I avail of a SBI educational loan?
For Scholar Loans:
Loan can be availed -
a. From the specially designated branch near to the educational institute.
b. At the place of permanent residence/ place of employment of co-borrower/ location of property offered as security, if applicable.
Other schemes: Loan can be availed at the place of permanent residence/ place of employment of co-borrower/ location of property offered as security, if applicable”

===== 80E Deduction Income Tax Act 1961 For Education Loan.txt =====

80E Deduction Income Tax Act 1961 For Education Loan

What is Section 80E in the Income tax act?
Higher education, especially post-graduate or master’s degrees, is pursued by many. However, it is a known fact that education costs are rising, and not everyone can pay for it from their savings. If you are planning to invest in higher education for yourself or a family member, you can consider taking an education loan. The interest paid on such loans is eligible for tax deduction under Section 80E of Income Tax Act, making it a financially smarter choice for managing education expenses.

One of the upsides of taking a loan on education is that you can claim a tax deduction on it. Income Tax deductions are claims to bring down your taxable income. There are various sections in the Income Tax Act of 1961 that you can use when you are computing your tax liability.

As an individual who has taken an education loan, you can claim section 80 E deductions. Section 80E of the Income Tax Act states that you can get tax benefits on the interest you pay on your education loan in a fiscal year. This is, however, not applicable to the principal amount.

What are the deductions available in Section 80E
A tax deduction can be claimed when you are looking to lower your taxable income. This means you will need to invest your money in tools that can help you claim an exemption or deduction.

However, while a loan cannot be termed as an investment, you are still investing funds to build someone’s future.

This means you can claim a tax exemption on an education loan. This gives rise to our question: what are the deductions available under education loan Section 80E?

An education loan has two components. The principal amount and the interest are applicable. The interest on education loan 80E is the component you can claim as a deduction under this section.

What is the deduction limit in Section 80E?
Most deductions and exemptions that an individual can claim have a certain financial limit to them. There is no upper cap under 80 E of Income Tax Act for the interest amount, which makes it beneficial for those with large education loans.

This is not the case here. There is no limit or cap on the interest deduction on education loans. In other words, there is technically no 80E maximum limit for interest deductions, making it more beneficial than capped exemptions. The benefit, however, can only be availed for a maximum of 8 years or until the education loan is repaid (whichever is earlier).

Also, taking an education loan for a course in India has an additional advantage for the taxpayer. They can claim tax exemption on the tuition fees paid to the educational institute under Section 80C.

How do you avail 80E?
You can claim the tax exemption on the 80 E education loan starting from the year you begin repaying it. To enjoy the income tax benefit, you must furnish a certificate from the bank, financial institution, or charitable institute that has disbursed the loan.

The certificate should clearly state the principal amount and the interest amount separately.

Eligibility for tax deduction under Section 80E
The eligibility criteria to claim a deduction on an education loan are as follows:

Any Individual taxpayer can enjoy tax deduction under section 80E if they have taken a loan for higher or further education for themself, their spouse or children. If they are a legal guardian to another student and has taken a loan, they can still claim the education loan income tax benefit.

A Hindu Undivided Family cannot claim any deduction under Section 80E.

The benefit of tax deduction under 80 E can only be enjoyed by the individual who has applied and is repaying the loan.

How is 80E calculated?
The principal and interest are the two components while repaying any loan, including an education loan. To calculate 80E, you will first need to know the principal amount and the applicable interest.
Based on this, you will get the EMI you will be repaid monthly.
For example: Let us assume your EMI is for Rs. 15,000 per month, out of which your interest component amount is Rs. 7500. This would mean that you are paying Rs. 90,000 as interest for a fiscal year. This amount would be reduced from your taxable income for eight years or until the loan is repaid.
Can I claim 80E while filing ITR?
Yes, if you are repaying an education loan for a family member or legal guardian, you can claim the 80E tax benefit on the interest amount while filing ITR.
What are the exemptions under 80E?
The interest payable on an education loan is exempted under 80E.
Q: What is section 80E with example?
A: Section 80E allows income tax deduction on interest paid towards an education loan for higher studies. For Example: If you paid ₹50,000 interest on your education loan in a year, you can claim that amount as a deduction under section 80E, reducing your taxable income.
Q: What is 80E in income tax?
A: 80E in income tax refers to the deduction allowed on the interest paid towards an education loan for higher studies. This deduction is available for up to 8 years and has no upper limit on the interest amount.
