1 
 
“Pradhan Mantri KIsan SAmman Nidhi (PM-KISAN)” 
  
 
Possible FAQs:  
 
1. What is Pradhan Mantri KIsan SAmman Nidhi ? 
 
The Government has launched a new Central Sector Scheme  Pradhan Mantri 
KIsan SAmman Nidhi (PM -KISAN) to provide income support to all Small and 
Marginal landholding farmer families to supplement the ir financial needs for procuring 
various inputs related to agriculture and allied activities as well as domestic needs.  
Under the Scheme, the entire  financial liability towards  transfer of benefit to targeted 
beneficiaries will be borne by Government of India.    
 
2. What are the benefits of the Scheme? 
 
Under the scheme,  Landholder Farmer families with total cultivable holding upto 
2 hectares shall be provided a benefit of Rs.6000 per annum per family payable in three 
equal installments, every four months.  The scheme takes effect from 01.12.2018.  The 
first installment to eligible beneficiaries during this financial year 2018-19 shall be for the 
period from 01.12.2018 to 31.03.2019. 
 
3. Who is eligible to get benefits under the Scheme? 
 
All landholding farmer  families having cultivable landholding upto 2 hectare,  
whose names appear in the land records of States/UT  as on 01.02.2019, are eligible to 
get benefit under the scheme.  However, out of these, the following are ineligible to get 
the benefits : 
 
(a) All Institutional Land holders; and 
 

2 
 
(b) Farmer families in  which one or more of its members belong to following 
categories:- 
 
i. Former and present holders of constitutional posts 
ii. Former and present Ministers/ State Ministers and former/present  
Members of Lok Sabha/ Rajya Sabha/ State Legislative Assemblies/ State 
Legislative Councils, former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations, 
former and present Chairpersons of District Panchayats.  
 
iii. All serving or retired officers and employees of Central/ State Government 
Ministries /Offices/Departments and its field units Central or State PSEs and 
Attached offices /Autonomous Institutions under Government as well as regular 
employees of the Local Bodies (Excluding Multi Tasking Staff / Class IV/Group D 
employees) 
iv. All superannuated/retired pensioners whose monthly pension is 
Rs.10,000/-or more(Excluding Multi Tasking Staff / Class IV/Group D employees)  
v. All Persons who paid Income Tax in last assessment year. 
 
vi. Professionals like Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, Chartered Accountants, 
and Architects registered with Professional bodies and carrying out profession by 
undertaking practices.  
 
4. How many times the benefit will be given in a year? 
 
The benefit will be provided in three equal installments of Rs. 2000 /- each for 
every 4 months period into the bank account of all eligible beneficiaries. For 2018-19, 
the beneficiary shall be provided one installment w.e.f. 01.12.2018. 
 
 

3 
 
5. Whether an employee of the Central/State Government / PSU / Autonomous 
Organization, etc. is eligible to get the benefit under the scheme? 
 
No.  Serving or retired officer  and employee of Central/ State Government 
Ministries /Offices/Departments and its field units Central or State PSEs and Attached 
offices /Autonomous Institutions under Government as well as regular employees of the 
Local Bodies  are not eligible to get ben efit under the scheme.  However, serving or 
retired Multi Tasking St aff / Class IV/Group D employee is el igible to get benefit under 
the Scheme provided their families are otherwise eligible and not covered under other 
exclusion criteria.  
6. Will any indi vidual or farmer family owning more than 2 hectare of 
cultivable land get any benefit under the scheme? 
No. Any individual or farmer family owning more than 2 hectare of cultivable land 
will not get any benefit under the scheme. 
7. What will happen if the beneficiary gives incorrec t declaration  for the 
implementation of the Scheme? 
In case of incorrect declaration, the beneficiary shall be liable for recovery of 
transferred financial benefit and other penal actions as per law.  
8. What is the cutoff date for determination of eligibility of beneficiaries under 
the scheme? 
 
The cut-off date for determination of eligibility of beneficiaries under the scheme 
shall be 01.02.2019 and no changes thereafter shall be considered for eligibility of 
benefit under the scheme for next 5 years except transfer of land on succession in case 
of death of landholder. 
 
 

4 
 
9. Whether the scheme benefits will be allowed in cases where transfer of 
ownership of cultivable land takes place on account of succession due to death 
of the landowner? 
 
Yes. The Scheme b enefits will be allowed  in all such  cases where transfer of 
ownership of cultivable land has taken place on account of succession due to death of 
the landowner.  
 
10. Whether transfer of ownership occurred between 01.12.2018 and 31.01.2019 
are eligible for consideration? 
 
In cases where transfer of ownership of cultivable land has happened between 
01.12.2018 and 31.01.2019 due to any reasons such as purchase, succession, will, gift, 
etc., the first installment during the financial year (2018 -19) shall be of proportionate 
amount from date of transfer till 31.03.2019 with respect to the 4 months perio d, 
provided the families are otherwise eligible as per scheme guidelines. 
 
11. Is an income tax pa yee farmer or his /her spouse  eligible to get benefit 
under the scheme? 
 
No. if any member of the family is income tax payee  in last assessment year, 
then the family is not eligible for benefit under the scheme.  
 
12. What is the definition of small and marginal landholder farmer family?   
 
A Small and Marginal landholder farmer family is defined as “a family comprising 
of husband, wife and minor children who collectively own cultivable land upto 2 hectare 
as per land records of the concerned State/UT”.  The existing land -ownership system 
will be used for identification of beneficiaries for calculation of payment.   
 

5 
 
13. Does any person/farmer who is not having land holding in his name is 
eligible to get benefit under the Scheme?  
 
No. Land holding  is the sole criteria to avail financial benefit under Income 
Support Scheme.   
 
14. How the beneficiaries under the Scheme will be identified and shortlisted 
for payment of intended benefit? 
 
The prevailing land -ownership system / record of land in different States/Union 
Territories will be used  to identify the intended beneficiaries for transfer of scheme 
benefits. 
 
Responsibility of identifying the landholder farmer family eligible for benefit under 
the scheme shall be of the State/UT Government. 
 
15.  What is the mandatory information required to be submitted on PM -KISAN 
portal for the transfer of benefits? 
 
The States shall prepare database of eligible beneficiary landholder farmer 
families in the villages capturing the Name, Age, Gender, Category (SC/ST) , Aadhaar 
Number (in case Aadhaar Number has not been issued then Aadhaar Enrollment 
Number together with any other prescribed documents for purposes of the identification 
such as Driving Licence, Voters’ ID Card, NREGA Job Card, or any other identification 
documents issued by Central/State/UT Governments or their authorities, etc.), Bank 
Account Number, IFSC Code. Though mobile number is not mandatory but it is advised 
that when available it may be captured so that the information related to 
sanction/transfer of benefit can be communicated.  
 
In cases of beneficiaries in States of Assam, Meghalaya, J&K where Aadhaar 
number has not been issued to most of the citizens, Aadhaar number shall be collected 

6 
 
for those beneficiaries where it is available and for others alternate prescribed 
documents can be collected for identity verification purposes by the States/UT 
Governments. 
 
16. How does a landholder farmer s’ family know  that his/her name is included 
in the list of beneficiaries? 
 
The beneficiary lists would be displayed at Panchayats to ensure greater 
transparency and information. Further, States/UTs would notify the sanction of benefit to 
the beneficiary through system generated SMS.   
 
17. What is the remedy available for eligibl e beneficiary if his/her name is not 
included in the list of beneficiaries? 
 
All such farmer  families whose name s are not included in the list of beneficiaries 
can approach the District Level Grievance Redressal Monitoring  Committee in their 
Districts for inclusion of their names in the beneficiary list. 
 
18. In case of landholding of 2 hectare in different parcels owned by family 
members are spread across different revenue records in the same or different 
villages, whether they will be eligible for benefit on all such pockets of land or will 
his benefit be limited to Rs.6000/- per annum only?  
 
The entire land held by such farmer family will be pooled together and the 
maximum benefit of Rs. 6000 per annum will only be provided. 
 
19. If the holding of a family is up to 2 hectare and are in the names of different 
members of family, whether they are eligible for the benefits? 
 
Yes. If within a landholding farmer family, cultivable land is in names of different 
family members, in such cases, the land will be pooled for determination of eligibility.  

7 
 
The payment will be given to the person within the family having highest quantum of 
land.  If the quantum of land owned by two or more individual family members is same, 
payment will be transferred in the name of eldest member among them in the farmer 
family.  
 
20. If there are multiple landholding farmer families whose names are recorded 
on a single landholding of more than 2 hectare but individual land holding of 
each/few of the farmers is 2 hectare or less, whether each farmer family is eligible 
to get benefit of the scheme? If so, what is the quantum of minimum financial 
benefit that such families will get under the scheme?  
 
Each of such farmer family would be eligible for the benefit under the scheme 
upto the extent of Rs. 6000/- provided they are otherwise eligible as per scheme 
guidelines. 
21. Will be monetary benefit under the Scheme be directly credited into 
beneficiary accounts?  
 
The income support benefit will also be directly credited into bank accounts of 
beneficiaries. 
 
22. Whether it is compu lsory for beneficiaries to give  their bank account 
details? 
 
Yes, the beneficiaries are required to provide t heir bank account details with 
Aadhaar number so as to credit the financial benefit under the scheme directly into their 
bank accounts.  No benefit can be given if bank account details have not been provided. 
  

8 
 
 
23. Whether giving Aadhaar details are mandatory? 
 
Yes, since this is a beneficiary oriented scheme, in terms of extant guidelines, the 
Aadhaar number of the beneficiary has to be mandatorily provided .  In case Adhaar 
number is not available, then in such case the application has to provide the Aadhar 
enrolment number to avail of the benefit under the scheme.   However, only for transfer 
of first installment relaxation has been given for transfer of benefit to beneficiaries on 
basis of alternate documents for identification.  However subsequent installments will be 
transferred only where States/UTs where Aadhar number is not available. 
 
In cases of beneficiaries in States of Assam, Meghalaya, J&K where Aadhaar 
number has not been issued to most of the citizens, Aadhaar number shall be collected 
for those beneficiaries where it is available and for others alterna te prescribed 
documents can be collected for identity verification purposes by the States/UT 
Governments. 
 
24. Can States/UTs provide certified lists of beneficiaries on the PM KISAN Portal 
in phases or in batches as and when they are finalized? 
Yes, State s/UTs can provide list of eligible beneficiaries as and when they are 
finalized based on the eligibility criteria in batches/phrases.  The benefits will be 
released on regular basis based on the approved list provided by the States/UTs.