Credit Facilities to Marketing Federations - NABARD - National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Home Skip to Main Content -A A +A A A A A A Sitemap Help हिन्दी National Portal National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development fostering rural prosperity Contact us About Us Who we are What we do Board of Directors Organogram HO Departments Regional Offices DDMs/DDOs (District Offices) Subsidiaries Training Establishments Information Centre Circulars Financial Reports Model Bankable Projects Publications Case Studies Unit Cost Credit Linked Plans National Level Papers State Level Papers State Focus Paper Potential Linked Plans Statewise Scale of Finance Govt. Sponsored Schemes Interest Rates Investor Relations Act & Regulations Debarred NGOs RTI NABARD in G20 Secured Assets SARFAESI Act BASEL III Disclosure Media Room Fair Lending Practices Project Locator Tenders Career Notices Scroll Down Credit Facilities to Marketing Federations Marketing federations and cooperatives play a very important role in agribusiness and value chain management of various agricultural commodities including milk. The major activities undertaken by these institutions are procurement of agricultural commodities, aggregation, storage & value addition and marketing. Activities under the agricultural sector are seasonal, leading to seasonal demand for credit, inputs etc. Thus, the operations performed by these federations and cooperatives require seasonal short-term credit facility (12 months) for supporting their day-to-day operations. Eligible Institutions The following institutions will be eligible for funding under Credit Facility to Federations (CFF) I. State/Central Govt. Agricultural Marketing Federations, Corporations II. Dairy Co-operatives/Federations III. Agriculture Marketing Co-operatives/Federations IV. Registered Companies Eligibility Criteria Broad eligibility criteria for borrower entity for availing funding under CFF is as under: I. State/Central Govt. Agricultural Marketing Federations, Corporations It must have been established or constituted by or under any Central Act, or State Acts and major share of the paid up capital is held or controlled by the Central / State Government Earned profit during the last three years and not having accumulated losses Entities with poor financials will be considered based on the merit of the proposal and if backed with Government Guarantee Regular audit of accounts II. Dairy and Agriculture Co-operatives and Federations It must be a registered body under Co-operative Societies Act / other relevant Act Earned profit during the last three years and not having accumulated losses Professional Management and democratic setup Regular audit of accounts III. Registered Companies It must be a registered body under Companies Act Earned profit during the last three years and not having accumulated losses Professional Management The minimum credit rating of the promoting company should be at 'AA' by CRISIL or CARE or SEBI approved rating agency Should not have a history of defaults in repayment of any type of financial assistance Regular audit of accounts. Eligible Activities Procurement and marketing of agricultural commodities Processing and marketing of agricultural commodities Procurement, processing and marketing of milk Supply of Agricultural inputs including animal feed Other activities related to value addition and supply chain management of agriculture commodities Quantum of Credit limit and Margin/ borrower contribution Credit limit and Margin/Borrower's contribution will be as per the guidelines issued by RBI from time to time. The quantum of credit limit depends upon the type of beneficiary and requirement / purpose of credit limit. Rate of interest The rate of interest will be as per the rate decided by NABARD. Further, interest is dependent upon the type of borrower, type of security offered, availability of guarantee, type of project, credit rating of the entity and the prevailing market conditions. Security for Credit limit The security requirement will depend upon the rating of the borrowing entity, type of operations etc., and as per requirements/stipulations laid down by RBI from time to time. The primary security would be hypothecation of assets, stocks, receivables, and book debts. Additional collaterals in the form of unencumbered assets, fixed deposits, guarantees etc., may be required depending on the borrowing entity and purpose of limit. Appraisal Fee / Upfront fee Appraisal fee/upfront fee charged from the promoter will be specific to the proposal. The power to waive the fees rests with the sanctioning authority of the Bank. GOVT. SPONSORED SCHEMES Farm Sector Non-Operational/Close Scheme Agricultural Debt Waiver And Debt Relief Scheme, 2008 Commercial production units of organic inputs - National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) Dairy Entrepreneurship Development Scheme National Livestock Mission Operational Scheme Agriclinic and Agribusiness Centres Scheme Interest Subvention Scheme New Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme for Extending Financial Assistance to Sugar Mills for Enhancement and Augmentation of Ethanol Production Capacity Off Farm Sector Special Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme (SCLCSS) Stand up India Quick Links Citizen's Charter Other Related Links Public Notices Grievances / Enquiry / Feedback Right to Information Glossary Tenders Contact Us Financial Supervisory Interest Rates GOVT. Sponsored Scheme Financial Reports Publications Acts & Regulations Case Studies Warehouse Directory Investor Relations Debarred NGOs by NABARD Privacy Statement Clarifications Fraud Complaints Other NABARD Links Gender Policy of NABARD Department of Financial Services Internal Committee Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act,2013 ESMS Document For Solar Rooftop Investment Program (Tranche 3) Follow Us National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer © NABARD. Site By Cyfuture India Pvt Ltd. Scroll Up